139	int.    church.    dusk.

they enter the church.  it's in almost total darkness.  then a flare 
suddenly illuminates the interior.  it's magnificent.  kip holds the 
flare, crimson on one arm, green pouring up from the other.  hana walks 
behind him, still perplexed.  there is protective scaffolding 
everywhere, and sandbags piled up high around the altars, and the 
statues.

a second flare.  kip has appeared through a secret door high in the 
church, literally emerging from one of the frescoes which are 
momentarily visible.  he flings a rope over the rafters.

now kip circles hana with the rope, making a sling across her waist and 
shoulder.  he lights a smaller flair and hands it to her before 
disappearing.

hana stands holding the flare.  she can't see kip, can only hear him 
scrambling.

			hana
		kip?

he runs up the sandbags, right up into the rafters.  he collects the 
other end of the rope which is attached to hana.  holding onto it, he 
just steps off into the darkness.

simultaneously hana is swung up into the air, her startled yelp echoing 
around the church.  kip touches ground, while hana swings through 
space, coming to rest about three feet from the frescoed walls, painted 
by piero della francesca.  hana's flare makes a halo around her head.

now kip, on the ground, still holding the rope, walks forward and 
causes hana to swing to the right.  she lets out a giddy laugh, 
exhilarated and nervous, and she flies, illuminating - en passant - 
faces, bodies, angels.  kip guides the rope as if they were making 
love, which in a way they are.

hana arrives, hovering, in front of the queen of sheba talking to 
solomon. she's overwhelmed.  she reaches out to touch the giant neck of 
the sad queen.

kip slowly lets her down, paying out the length of the rope.  hana's 
face is full of tears.  he smiles, holds her.


