57	ext.    beach cabin.    day.

hana walks between the cabins.  stuart steps out of the shade.  he is 
drawn, older than last seen.

			stuart
		my leave is canceled.  i can't
		meet you later.

hana frowns, helpless.  as if to emphasize this, a staff nurse comes 
by, carrying a bowl and a withering look.


58*.	int.    beach cabin.    day.

 hana enters, approaches the patient.  she's circumspect.

			hana
		excuse me -

			the patient
		yes?

			hana
		can i ask - my friend, can he come in?
		just for a few minutes?

			the patient
		your friend?

			hana
		he's going back to the front this
		evening.  i can't see him otherwise.

			the patient
		just go off.  i'll be quite all right.

			hana
		no, i can't go, but if it, if you weren't 
		offended, it would be very good of you 
		to allow us - every other cabin is crammed.
		this is as private as we'll get.

			the patient
		well then - yes.  of course.

			hana
		thank you.  thank you.

she hurries out, returns with stuart.  they stand awkwardly.

			hana
		this is captain mcgann.

			the patient
		please, don't waste your time on
		pleasantries -

			stuart
		thanks.

			the patient
		i'm going to sing.  if i sing i shan't
		hear anything.

and with that he bursts into a raucous, coughing version of yes! we 
have no bananas.  he changes language each verse.  the couple stand, 
formal, then edge round to the back of the bed.

			hana
				(touching his lip)
		you've got a mustache.

			stuart
		a bit of one.

			hana
		i was looking forward to this evening.

			stuart
				(whispers)
		i had a hotel room.

			hana 
				(whispers)
		i thought that was for when we
		were very very old?

			stuart
		i'm feeling old.

they embrace, fiercely, hardly making a sound, or moving.  the patient 
roars the song.


59*.	ext.   the monastery.   hana's garden.   morning.

a battered open backed truck comes into the monastery.  an italian 
partisan sits in the back, a shotgun resting on his knees.  the truck 
stops, and caravaggio emerges from the passenger door.  he collects 
some packages from the partisan, including a dead rabbit, and then 
exchanges a few words with the driver.  hana, who's watching all of 
this from her garden, sees that the driver is a woman.  the woman's 
name is gioia, and caravaggio leans into the window to make his goodbye 
to her.

caravaggio approaches the vegetable garden as hana comes to greet him.  
he throws her the rabbit, and hurries up the stairs without pausing, 
clutching the other boxes.

			caravaggio
		supper.

hana calls after him.

			hana
		where've you been?

			caravaggio
				(not stopping)
		rabbit hunting.

hana looks at the rabbit.  she's angry.  caravaggio hasn't been around 
for a week.


60*.	int.  the monastery.  downstairs corridor.  day.

hana heads up for the kitchen, then stops as there's a faint crash from 
upstairs.


61*.	int.   the monastery.   upstairs corridor.   day.

hana, the rabbit still in her hands, comes along the corridor to find 
caravaggio slumped on the floor, retching.  the discarded needle lies 
beside him, the new package of morphine capsules ripped open.  he looks 
up at hanna, glazed.

			hana
		i could help you.  i could
		get you off that.

			caravaggio
		can you cook the rabbit or will you
		try and bring that back to life?

she bends, starts clearing up, putting the morphine phials back into 
the box.

			hana
		it's a week.  we didn't know where you
		were - or if you coming back, or -

			caravaggio
				(of the drugs)
		you should be happy.  what were you
		going to do for him when it ran out?

he pulls out more phials from his jacket.

			hana
		what do you do?  what are you doing here?

			caravaggio
		some gave me a dress.
				(starts to tear at a parcel)
		you know what's great?  what i'm learning?
		you win a war and you not only gain the
		miles you get the moral ground.
		everywhere i go, we're in the right.
		i like that.


62*.	int.    the patient's room.    day.

hana comes in, carrying a batch of the new morphine.  she's wearing a 
different frock.  it's not new, and it's faded, but the change of color 
is startling.

			the patient
		something smells so rich.  my
		stomach is heaving -

			hana
		he came back, he says he caught a
		rabbit.  i'm cooking it.

			the patient
		that's a different dress.

			hana
		he keeps asking me questions about you.
		do you know him?  do you recognize him?

			the patient
		do i recognize him?  i recognize what he is.
		i like him.  he's canadian.  he can read
		italian.  he can catch rabbits.


63*.	ext.    basecamp at pottery hill.    dusk.

almásy squats with an ancient arab outside his rudimentary house, while 
he draws on the sand, talking in some arcane dialect, scratching out a 
possible location for the lost oasis.  the man stops speaking and 
scours the sky a beat or two before we or almasy hear the faint noise 
of a plane.  it's clifton's steerman, rupert bear, coming in to land.  
almasy doesn't look up.

the arab continues to talk.  the newly-arrived katharine has scrambled 
up the hill to speak to almásy.

			katharine
				(diffident)
		hello.  not to interrupt but
		we're celebrating.

she makes to leave but almásy puts up a hand to keep katharine there, 
but quiet.

			almÁsy
		this is an incredible story - about a man
		hunting an ostrich, he's been telling me
		about zerzura, he thinks he's been there,
		but his map, the route he's describing,
		he couldn't survive the journey now, but
		he's a poet, so his map is poetry - and
		now we're onto an ostrich.
				(to the arab in arabic)
		i'm telling her your map is poetry.

the arab shrugs.

			katharine
		what do you mean, poetry?

			almÁsy
		a mountain curved like a woman's back, 
		a plateau the shape of an ear.

			katharine
		sounds perfectly clear.  where does
		the ostrich come in?

			almÁsy
		the ostrich is a detour.  a poor man hunts
		an ostrich, it's the method.  nothing to do
		with zerzura.  to catch an ostrich you must
		appear not to move.  the man finds a place
		where the ostrich feeds, a wadi, and stands
		where the ostrich can see him, on the
		horizon, and doesn't move, doesn't eat -
		otherwise the ostrich will run.  at nightfall,
		he moves, fifty, sixty yards.  when the
		ostrich comes the next day, the man is
		there, but he's nearer.
				(to the guide)
		haunting the ostrich.

the guide speaks, amplifying something, picking at his robe.

			almÁsy
		yes, the ostrich, it will feed a family,
		not just the meat, but by selling the 
		feathers, beak, the skin, a year from
		this one animal.  so, each day the
		man gets closer.  and the ostrich is
		not sure - has something changed? -
		now the standing man is only a few
		yards from where it feeds.  and then
		one day, the man is in the wadi, in
		the water.  and the ostrich comes, as
		always, dips into the water and the
		man jumps up - and captures it.

he shrugs.  the arab has more to say.  almásy doesn't respond, quieting 
him with a dismissive gesture.

			katharine
		what is he saying?
				(almasy, awkward, shakes his head)
		come on, what did he say?

			almÁsy
		he said - be careful.

			katharine
		be careful?  you mean you - or me?  who?

			almÁsy
				(to the arab)
		her or me?

the arab speaks again.  almasy speaks without looking at her.

			almÁsy
		the one who appears not to be moving.


64*.	int.    tent.   basecamp at pottery hill.   night.

katharine comes in.  then, a beat, and almásy.  clifton is holding up 
the champagne.  

			clifton
		gentlemen, to zerzura.

			all
		zerzura.

			madox
		and a special thank you to geoffrey
		and katharine, without whose
		fund-raising heroics we should 
		still be kicking our heels.

they toast the cliftons.

			clifton
		to arm-twisting.

			madox
				(to almásy)
		did katharine say? - 
		geoffrey has to fly back to cairo.

			clifton
		have to return the favor - take a few
		photographs for the army.

			katharine
		darling, peter says i could stay...

			madox
				(checking with almásy)
		why not?

			almÁsy
		what kind of photographs?

			clifton
		portraits.  the brigadier, the brigadier's
		wife, the brigadier's dogs, the brigadier
		at the pyramids, the brigadier breathing.

			katharine
				(to clifton)
		why do you think?  about my staying?

			clifton
		well look, if nobody minds, truly, then
		i suppose - i shall, of course, be bereft...

			katharine
				(playfully poking his ribs)
		oh.

			clifton
		but finally able to explore the cairo
		night-life.  i shall produce an
		authoritative guide to the zinc bars
		and - i want to say harems - am i in
		the right country for harems?


65*.	ext.     basecamp at pottery hill.    morning.

as clifton prepares to leave in the steerman, almásy approaches.

			almÁsy
		safe journey.

			clifton
		you too.  good luck!

			almÁsy
		clifton - your wife - do you think
		it's appropriate to leave her?

			clifton
		appropriate?

			almÁsy
		i think the desert is, it's - for a
		woman - it's very tough, i wonder 
		if it's not too much for her.

			clifton
		are you mad?  katharine loves it
		here. she told me yesterday.

			almÁsy
		all the same, i, were i you i would
		be concerned -

			clifton
		i've known katharine since she was
		three, my aunt is her aunt, we were
		practically brother and sister before
		we were man and wife.  i think i'd
		know what is and what isn't too much
		for her.  i think she's know herself.

			almÁsy
		very well.

			clifton
				(laughing it off)
		why are you people so threatened 
		by a woman?!

he settles into the controls.  almásy watches the plane taxi away.  
doesn't move at all.  katharine waves from the tent as the steerman 
takes off.


65a*.	ext.    basecamp at pottery hill.

the three ford cars leave the campsite, loaded for a scouting 
expedition.  the rest of the party, bedouin, tents, camels and tiger 
moth is left behind.  madox shouts last-minute instructions from the 
window of his car.


66*.	ext.    desert en route to cave of swimmers.    day.

fenelon-barnes sits astride his camel, and wipes away the sweat.  the 
desert stretches for miles, shimmering, the sun baking the sand.  his 
guides wind their headcloths tighter.  nobody speaks.  then one of them 
looks round, raises a hand.  a buzzing noise.  they all turn.  a small 
cloud of dust emerges over a ridge.  locusts?  a sandstorm?

a caravan of cars, the almásy/madox expedition, bumps along, 
suspensions threatened by the constant dips and ridges.  on each car 
there are three in the passenger cabin, the open backs crammed with 
drums of gasoline and water and equipment.  on the front vehicle, the 
tenth member of the party, kamal, acts as a navigator and sits on a 
camel saddle, a rodeo cowboy, on the roof of the leading car, driven by 
madox.  as they spot fenelon-barnes they sound their horns and wave 
good-naturedly.  f-b scowls, watches them roar by, stealing his 
thunder.


66a*.	ext.  desert en route to cave of swimmers.   day.

one of the cars is hopelessly bogged down in heavy sand.  it's contents 
have been unloaded, and a rope ladder is being inserted under the 
tires.  the entire company huff and puff and argue about the best means 
of extricating the vehicle.


67*.	int.    car en route to cave of swimmers.    day.

later - almásy drives the second car, accompanied by katharine and al 
auf.  katharine breaks the long silence.

			katharine
		i've been thinking about - how does
		somebody like you decide to come to
		the desert?  what is it?  you're doing
		whatever you're doing - in your castle,
		or wherever it is you live, and one day,
		you say, i have to go to the desert - or what?

almásy doesn't answer.  katharine, who has looked at him for an answer, 
looks away.  there's another long silence.

			almÁsy
		i once traveled with a terrific guide,
		who was taking me to faya.  he didn't
		speak for nine hours.  at the end of
		it he pointed at the horizon and 
		said - faya!  that was a good day!

point made, they lapse again into silence.  katharine boils.

			katharine
		actually, you sing.

			almÁsy
		pardon?

			katharine
		you sing.  all the time.

			almÁsy
		i do not.

			katharine
		ask al auf.

almásy asks al auf in arabic.  he laughs, nods.

			katharine
				(sings wickedly)
		i'll be down to get you in the taxi,
		honey, you'd better be ready about
		half-past eight...!

al auf nods and grins furiously, joins in, impersonating almásy.  
almásy grunts in irritation.


68*.	ext.  near the basecamp at the cave of swimmers.  dusk.

the group is investigating a cleft in the rocky massif.  they climb 
slowly.  below them, a new and temporary base camp.

the group winds around the rock.  almásy turns to offer a hand to 
katharine behind him, pulling her up to the next rock slab.  she smiles 
at him.  he smiles back curtly, continues.

the group stops at a level plateau.  the arabs stand apart and sing 
their prayers at dusk.  al auf leads the incantations.

			al auf
		allahu akbar, allahu akbar...

the westerners wait respectfully.  as the sun sets in glory, almásy 
looks over at the range of rocks.  one particular range seems to look 
exactly like a woman's back.  he squints at the rock.  almásy 
discreetly pulls out his compass.


69*.	ext.    cave of swimmers.    dusk.

almásy clambers up the rocks, coming through a narrow crevice to find a 
natural shelf.  he scrambles up this path, reaching up, only to notice 
that his hand almost perfectly covers a painted hand on the rock, and 
as he digests this he realizes he has climbed past what is the mouth of 
a cave.  he disappears inside.


