int. linda's house - father's bedroom - day

the room is a wreck of broken furniture. chairs are turned
over, lamps are smashed and the pictures hang cockeyed on the
wall. in the middle of the room, face down on the floor, is
linda's father. his coat is torn, one shoe is missing and he
holds a half-empty bottle in his hand. behind him, through
the open window, snow is blowing in.

linda comes in with the tray. she stands for a moment
expressionless, looking down at her father. then she sets the
tray on the bureau and kneels beside him.

			linda 
	daddy?

			father
		(mumbles)
	go... fucking hell!

linda reaches down, takes her father by the shoulder and
rolls him over. it takes some effort and the face that comes
up is gray, unshaven and implacably bitter. saliva dribbles
from his mouth, there is a cut with the stitches still in it
seaming his forehead and as linda looks at him he begins
cursing again.

			father (cont'd)
	fucking shit... all around, like a
	sea! like an ocean!

linda gets up and closes the window. she comes back, gets
down on the floor beside her father and pushes him toward the
bed. then, hiking up her bridesmaid's dress, she takes him by
the shoulders again and heaves him onto the coverlet. the
effort is almost too much for her. tears begin to burn in her
eyes, but when he slips back she tries again. the father
groans, begins to mumble, and then, when she almost has him
on the bed, he suddenly lifts his hand, catches her full in
the face and pushes her violently across the room.

linda crashes backwards over a fallen chair and smashes into
the wall. as she gets to her feet her father advances on her.

			father (cont'd)
	fucking bitch... all bitches!

he swings, catches her in the face again, hard.

			linda
	daddy...! daddy, it's me!

			father
	hate 'em. fucking bitches!

linda's father swings at her again, loses his balance and
falls on the floor. linda stands looking at him, holding her
jaw. she is crying. tears are streaming down her face. 

