ext. pennsylvania steel mill - light snow - day

the plant is massive, grime-streaked, squatting in the valley
under five massive stacks, each one trailing a black ribbon
across the winter sky. fires can be seen flickering through
the windows and long flames weave and dance from the tops of
guyed metal flues. steam rises in clouds from vents and
chimneys and the sound of it all -- the hissing, the
clanging, the rumbling, the shrieking -- comes faintly, muted
by the falling snow.

in the foreground is a street -- columbine street -- which
inhabits the bottom of a narrow ravine and plunges directly
down the hillside, straight at the mill. columbine is a sad
looking street, a grim-looking street, a street hanging on by
the skin of its teeth. dilapidated stores hug the narrow
sidewalks. battered signs squeak in the wind. sandwiched
between the stores and scattered on twisting roads along the
hillside are narrow victorian houses. these houses, which run
to three stories or more in height, all seem on the verge of
toppling over, and undoubtedly would, except that they are
all connected one to another by a mad arrangement of utility
lines which cross and re-cross between them with occasional
aid from a leaning pole.

music comes up -- dissonant, rather frightening music -- as
we watch a car come charging up through the slush on
columbine street. as it nears camera the car falters on the
slippery grade and slides out of sight. a figure appears,
huddled against the driving snow. the figure disappears as
camera holds on the steel mill at the end of the empty
street.

main title comes up:

			  the deer hunter

