ext. cratered roadside - following day

refugees are streaming down the road in a desperate,
frightened human torrent. there is every imaginable means of
conveyance -- from bullock carts to motorbikes -- but the
vast majority, carrying their meager belongings, are fleeing
on foot. the burned-out car is still in the middle of the
road and the great human tide streams around it, as if it
were an island. in the distance comes the sound of machine
gun fire and mortars are coming in nearby. medvac helicopters
clatter overhead with wounded strapped to baskets on the
skids. now and then an army convoy comes through, blasting
the refugees into the ditch.

merle sits alone on the embankment by the side of the road.
nick and sal are gone and the area is littered with fresh
bandage packages and throw-away medical supplies. suddenly a
jeep pulls up with a two-star general in it.

			general
	where's your unit, soldier?

merle stares at the general -- blankly, without
comprehension. finally, after a long moment, he gives a
slight shrug.

			general 
		(to his driver)
	c'mon. we'll take him along.

the general and the driver get out and start up the
embankment toward merle.

			general (cont'd)
	little r and r and you'll be
	standing tall again, son... damn,
	this is steep!

			driver 
	uh-oh. sir.

the general looks up at merle. merle is holding the pearl
handled revolver and he cocks the hammer with an audible
click.

			general 
	uh-oh.

the general and the driver turn tail, scramble back down the
embankment and pile in the jeep.

			general (cont'd)
		(as they take off)
	y'know, there's more fucking
	maniacs coming out of this
	conflict...

merle watches them go without expression. on the road below
the refugees stream past -- by the hundreds, by the
thousands, by the tens of thousands. for a long moment merle
watches, then he jams the gun in his pants and stands.

