ext. cratered roadside - night

a huge battle is taking place nearby. the earth trembles and
shakes and gigantic explosions intermittently light the sky.

merle staggers down a ravine with nick, loses his footing and
slides to the bottom where he lies in the mud, motionless,
too tired to move.

sal comes down behind. he is hunched over, like a gnome. the
rope which merle has tied around his neck drags in the mud
and his eyes are huge with terror.

			sal 
	merle?

			merle
		(a whisper)
	right here.

sal crouches down in the mud.

			sal 
	where are we going, merle? are we
	going home?

			merle 
		(barely moving his lips)
	right here.

another explosion lights the sky, this one much closer. in
the flash we see that a red american car is stranded in the
middle of the road. there is another explosion and another
flash. the car is dusty, spattered with mud, but otherwise it
appears miraculously unharmed.

nick's breath rattles in his throat. merle, who lies beside
nick, holding him, has closed his eyes. sal, who is the only
one who has seen the car, stares at it hard, and for a long
time, trying it out with one eye and then the other.

			sal 
	merle?

no answer.

			sal (cont'd)
	merle?

still no answer. sal goes over to merle and shakes him.
getting no response he crosses fearfully toward the
automobile. when he gets to within a foot of it, he reaches
out and touches it.

			sal (cont'd)
	merle. merle, a car!

as the flashes continue to light up the sky, sal peers at the
tires and begins kicking them.

			sal (cont'd)
	hey! hey, gee!

sal crosses to the window and looks in. there is no damage
whatsoever, the keys are dangling from the ignition. sal
pulls open the door and climbs in. he pumps the accelerator,
hits the starter...

there is a flash of fire, then a huge explosion and the car
goes up in a fireball of flame.

