int. steel mill - day

a white-hot ingot shoots out of an ejecting mechanism and
comes ripping down a track. another ingot follows it, and
another and another and another. the ingots are huge,
trembling with heat, and they come on with a terrifying
rumble.

credits roll

under credits we see steelworkers catching the ingots with
tongs and deftly swinging them into troughs. the steelworkers
wear leather aprons and are stripped to the waist. warped in
heat waves and glistening with sweat they seem like figures
in some hellish ballet. since they all wear goggles it is
hard to distinguish between them, but there are three, who
are young, who seem to work with particular grace. these are
nick, sal and merle.

credits end. camera closes on nick, sal and merle. the noise
is deafening, the heat is unbelievable and the ingots come on
with murderous speed. taking advantage of a slight pause
merle jabs nick and they both make cuckold's horns at sal.
sal blushes and waves them off with his hand. merle and nick
make the horns again and now sal puts both hands on his hips,
gives a thin smile and studies the corner of the shed. merle
and nick begin laughing. sal can't hold out and he starts
laughing too, but now the ingots begin roaring down the track
again and they all grab their tongs.

