ext. yard behind building - saigon - night

a tiny light glows inside a paper lantern. lying on the
around are three corpses, all of them asian, all of them
expensively dressed and all of them with their heads blown
off. as nick stands looking at them a door comes open on the
back of the building,and two burly men bring out another
corpse. the body is that of a young american. like the asians
he is expensively dressed and he is dead from a bullet in the
right temple.

			man (v.o.)
	if you are brave and lucky i can
	make you rich.

nick turns. a man is standing in the shadows of a small grape
arbor, eyeing him with a look of cold amusement. the man's
accent is french. beside him, on a small white table, is a
bottle of champagne and several glasses.

			man (cont'd)
	you have played?

nick stares at the man, nods.

			man (cont'd)
	once you have played it is not so
	hard. cigarette?

nick shakes his head.

			man (cont'd)
	you seem... disturbed.

			nick
	i... no. you do this for money?

			man 
	mais certainment... a great deal of
	money. naturally i do not do it
	myself. i myself do not possess the
	nerve.
		(smiles)
	but i am always... how do you
	say... looking out for those who
	do... it is a thing quite rare.
	champagne perhaps? tch, tch. don't
	say no. when a man says no to
	champagne, he says no to life and
	that no man must ever do.
		(gives nick a glass)
	where did you play?

			nick 
	up north.

			man 
	ah yes. of course... so few
	survive.
		(smiles)
	la creme de la creme... how did you
	obtain release?

			nick 
	playing.

			man
		(raises his eyebrows)
	playing?

			nick
	we... three bullets.

			man 
	and then you...

the man makes a clicking sound, three times, as if firing a
pistol. nick nods.

			man (cont'd)
	how extremely clever. that is
	really most extraordinaire... allow
	me please to introduce myself. i am
	armand... and you are?

			nick 
	nick.

			armand 
	nick. c'est extraordinaire! do you
	know that i have a cousin who is
	called nicholas and a nephew
	nickolai. so you are, comme on dit,
	en famille. in the family.

there is another shot from inside and another round of
applause.

			nick 
	i have to go.

			armand 
	but you must come in.

			nick 
	no, i --

			armand 
	but i insist.

			nick 
	i have to go.

			armand 
	you are frightened, no?

nick nods.

			armand (cont'd)
	of what is there to be afraid? the
	war? the war is no problem. it is a
	joke, a silly thing. i make one
	call and get you out.

armand refills nick's glass. nick looks at it. the glass is
as thin as paper and the sparkling bubbles dance and hiss.
nick lifts the glass and empties in one swallow.

			nick 
	see, i'm going home.

			armand 
	ah yes. of course.
		(smiles)
	to the girl who waits.

			nick 
		(gives him a look and
		sits)
	yeah... do you mind if i sit?

			armand 
	but of course! please make yourself
	comfortable. perhaps you would
	enjoy some fresh caviar, or une
	petite glace, or --?

			nick 
		(weary, shaking his head)
	no. none of that.

			armand 
	unfortunately i must now go in, but
	i leave you my card. naturellement
	i pay my players cash american.
	just so you know.

armand disappears in the darkness. then his voice comes
again.

			armand (v.o.) (cont'd)
	however, should you prefer german
	marks, or perhaps swiss francs,
	this of course can be arranged.
	everything can be arranged.

armand moves around the side of the building and the sound of
his footsteps fades away. the two burly men come lurching
with another corpse. laughter comes from inside the building
and there is a glimpse of an elegantly dressed woman seated
at a cafe table. the burly men return to the door and shut it
tight. in the distance the sky goes up in a huge flash of
fire and then the sound of the explosion rolls across the
city like a great dead wind.

							dissolve to:

