ext. nick's trailer - new angle - dawn

the banner stretching to the house across the street has been
whipped to shreds by the wind. in the yard, parked beside
nick's black cadillac, is another car of about the same
vintage. there is a case of beer on its roof, the windows are
entirely frosted over and the engine is running. after a
moment two steelworkers come down the street and knock on the
trailer door. two older women emerge, putting on their coats,
and then linda comes to the door and tells the steelworkers
she has no news. the steelworkers and the older women start
off, but now one of the women points to the frosted up car.
the steelworkers go back, pound on the roof of the frosted up
car, pull open a few doors and go on their way. first thing
out is a girl. next thing out is a second girl. their dresses
are rumpled and half-undone. neither one has a coat and the
second girl is missing a shoe. the girls both plunge back
inside the car, where howling and cursing can now be heard.
the girls both retrieve their coats. the second girl gets her
missing shoe, plus a bra and a pair of panties.
she returns the panties to the first girl, puts on her shoe
and they both take off at a fast trot. as the two girls leave
there is a cascade of empty beer cans and albert, vince and
john all stagger out -- bleary-eyed, hung-over, half
undressed and freezing. linda comes out of the trailer with
coffee, but just as she emerges the whistle at the mill goes
off. albert and vince begin yelling at each other, yelling at
john and yelling at linda. then they throw themselves back in
the car and start off. the case of beer on the roof crashes
to the street. they stop, pile out, pick up the cans, heave
them in the back seat and take off again.

john says something to linda and goes on his way.

linda stands in the yard, alone, with the three cups of
coffee.

