int.  bathroom - night

and into the bathroom.

                     norman
          wasn't until the shower that i realized
          you actually believed it.  nearly froze to
          death waiting for you.  thought the
          circuit breaker would kick back over and
          i'd be toast.

...then she's lowered into the tub.

                     norman
          the crazy thing is...i have never for one
          moment stopped loving you.

he actually wipes a tear from his eye.  he kisses her lips.
we can feel her revulsion.  his face over her.

                     norman
          don't worry about caitlin.  i'm sure in
          some tragic way this'll bring us closer
          together.

he turns on the faucets, then moves out of her line of
vision.  sound of a number being dialed.

                     norman (o.s.)
          hey, it's norman.  listen, we had a huge
          blowout, so i'm going down to sleep at
          the lab.  i guess you're out, but...
          maybe...if you wouldn't mind stopping by
          to check on her in the morning?

she glances down and sees on the edge of the tub...a
prescription bottle of valium with her name on the label.
her eyes go wide.

                     norman (o.s.)
          it's just...jody, it's bad.  i've never
          seen her like this...
               (he trails off, choking up)
          i don't really know what to do anymore.

norman, lit periodically by the sweep of the light house
beacon, squats with the phone and gazes down at her.

                     norman
          if anything ever happened to her, i'd...
               (beat)
          anyway, thanks.

claire, mute, glances frantically around.  one of her fingers
begins to flutter.

                     norman
               (tearfully)
          i'm so sorry.

the tub is rapidly filling.  he checks his watch, then
reaches for the valium.  as much from will as the drug
beginning to fade, claire lets out a garbled cry.

                     claire
               (sloppy, guttural)
          mmmuh...

                     norman
          shhhh.

                     claire
               (slurry)
          mauduh...

norman stops.

                     norman
          what?

                     claire
          madison!

norman seems unnerved that she's still clinging to her belief
in the ghost.

                     norman
          that's a little much, don't you think?

he sees the necklace on her neck.

                     norman
          oops.  can't have that.

he puts down the bottle of valium, then reaches around
claire's neck to remove the necklace.  when his hands close
on the clasp, his face suddenly goes slack.

norman's pov

his arms around madison's beautiful corpse.

norman explodes backwards, slamming his head into the brass
shower nozzle.  he staggers out of the bathroom before
collapsing with a thud.  the water finally rises above
claire's nostrils.

claire somehow manages to work a toe into the plug chain and
yank it free.  the water slowly descends.

when it seems that her lungs must burst, her mouth finally
clears the descending water.  she chokes in great gulps of
air.

the drug is finally wearing off.  claire sits up.  norman's
unconscious feet can be seen outside of the doorway.  she
turns off the water and stands unsteadily.

she looks around for the phone and finally spots the little
antenna protruding from under norman.  she delicately pulls
the phone out of his back pocket, only to discover that it's
been broken by his fall.  she drops it and walks quietly out
of the room.

