int.  hallway - day

claire bends down to pick up one of caitlin's socks.  when
she stands, something catches her eye out a window.  she
gazes down, transfixed.

angle

through a stand of trees over a high wooden fence, a young
couple is in the midst of a heated argument next door.
claire watches as the husband, a large imposing man with an
unruly shock of red hair, snarls at his wife across the hood
of their huge old buick.  she tries to get a glimpse of the
woman, but all that's visible is the back of her blond head.

a tan, sinewy arm encircles claire's waist.  she lets out a
small gasp as a hand closes on her breast.  it's claire's
husband, dr. norman spencer, nibbling gently at her neck.
he's older than she, pushing fifty, with silver streaks
beginning to permeate the shaggy mop of hair that makes him
look more like a preppy rocker or a lacrosse coach than the
prominent academic that he is.  claire, however, can't take
her eyes off the scene below.

                     norman
          they at it again?

claire nods.

                     norman
          christ, that's twice in...when did they
          move in?

                     claire
          i think three...

                     norman
          three weeks.

she continues to gaze downward.  the man leans over the hood,
murmuring darkly at his wife, though for claire and norman
the scene is entirely silent.

                     claire
          what's their name?

                     norman
          feur, i think.  psych department.  figures.
          they're all psychotic.

outside, mr. feur turns and walks toward his house.  norman
begins, once again, to nuzzle claire.  her eyes close, but
then she gently demurs.

                     claire
          she's awake.

                     norman
          we'll be quiet.  quick and quiet.

she turns to him.

                     claire
          i don't want to be either.

he smiles.  a really good smile.  the lips and tongue on his
faded t-shirt mark him as a 'stones fan.

                     norman
          when's she out of here?

                     claire
          norman spencer.

norman gives up.  he busses her cheek.

                     norman
               (moving toward the stairs)
          alright.  i can't take the rejection.  i'm
          going to class.

                     claire
          don't.

                     norman
          claire, i have to show up for the--

                     claire
          it's saturday.

norman stops.

                     norman
          i knew that.  you think i didn't know
          that?

she smiles at him.  after a beat:

                     norman
          it's today?

                     claire
               (wistfully)
          yep.

they share a warm, poignant look.  he turns and moves down
the stairs.

                     norman
               (calling over his shoulder)
          we're going to have to leave by three if
          we want to beat the traffic.

claire returns her gaze to the scene below as mr. feur says
something ominous to his wife, then stalks into the house.

                     norman (o.s.)
          claire?

                     claire
               (absently)
          three o'clock.

angle

mrs. feur drops her face into her hands.

