int.- denny's - day
    
rita and betty are seated next to the table where dan and
herb sat earlier in the day. they both have a cup of coffee
in front of them. betty has a newspaper open and she is
scanning the last pages.
    
				betty (cont'd)
		maybe it happened so late it's not going
		to be in today's paper.
    
				rita
		there's nothing?
    
				betty
		not that i can see.

    
the same waitress - diane, comes up to the girl's table and
freshens up their coffee. betty looks up and smiles, sees
diane's nameplate.
    
				betty (cont'd)
		thank you ... diane.
    
rita shoots a look from betty to diane to the nameplate.
    
							cut to:
    
close-up nameplate
    
the word "diane" is huge from rita's pov.
    
							cut to:
    
back to scene
    
diane finishes pouring rita's cup and smiles at betty.
    
				diane
		you're welcome. will that be all? you
		want your check?
    
				betty
		just the coffee. rita, you want
		something?
    
				rita
			(still staring at the nameplate
			- thinking)
		no. just the coffee.
    
				betty
		we'll take our check.
    
diane searches through her many checks to find betty and
rita's.
    
the manager of denny's, standing with a woman in a blue
dress, calls diane's name. diane turns and looks to the
manager and the woman. a fleeting fear goes through her
eyes. she surreptitiously reaches in her pocket and takes
out a mont blanc fountain pen which she puts under betty's
check as she places it on their table. she does this very
quickly but betty notices this and diane notices betty
noticing. diane walks quickly over to the manager and the
woman in the blue dress. betty turns and watches a heated
conversation that she can't hear, but she sees the woman in
the blue dress searching her purse and shrugging and then
leaving.

    
the manager says something to diane and diane turns her
pockets inside out and pats herself down in front of the
manager showing him her innocence. he waves her off and she
goes behind the counter to retrieve an order of food. betty
stops watching and turns her attention to rita, who is tense
and lost in a thought.
    
				betty (cont'd)
		what is it rita?
    
				rita
			(without moving a muscle)
		shhhh.
    
at that moment diane the waitress reappears at their table.
diane looks betty in the eye and while looking at betty her
left hand slides the mont blanc out from under the check and
back into her pocket.
    
				diane
		thank you. come in again.
    
betty holds her gaze.
    
				betty
		you're welcome. we will.
    
relieved diane leaves and goes about her business. betty
looks over at rita waiting for her to tell her something.
rita slowly turns and focuses on betty.
    
				rita
		i remember something... i remember
		something!
    
							cut to:
    
