int. porsche
    
adam feeling like a fool drives up the dark, winding canyon
road. as he nears the top of the canyon the residential area
gives way to desert brush. the road winds steeply up to a
dark dead end where an old barn and stable sit. adam parks in
a little dirt lot and walk up past the barn to the corral.
his eyes grow accustomed to the dark and he.looks about. no
one is around. there's only a light wind and a few twinkling
stars in the sky above. suddenly some bare bulbs hanging from
the corral gate flare up. adam hears a noise in the
brightness and turns. there walking toward him into the light
is the cowboy - dressed in clean blue denim jeans, well-oiled
unscuffed, beautifully engraved cowboy boots, a red
embroidered ivory buttoned cowboy shirt complete with string
tie. atop the cowboy's head is a 10 x white stetson. the
cowboy is smiling warmly as he approaches. he stops in front
of adam and begins to speak with a true, slow western drawl.
    
				cowboy
		howdy!
    
				adam
		howdy to you.

    
				cowboy
		beautiful night.
    
				adam
		yeah.
    
				cowboy
		sure want to thank ya for drivin' all the
		way up to see me from that beverly hills
		hotel.

				adam
		no problem. what's on your mind?
    
				cowboy
		well now, here's a man who wants to get
		right to it. kinda anxious to get to it
		are ya?
    
				adam
		whatever.
    
				cowboy
		a man's attitude ... a man's attitude goes
		some ways toward how a man's life will
		be. is that somethin' you agree with?
    
				adam
		sure.
    
				cowboy
		now... did you answer cause you thought
		that's what i wanted to hear or did you
		think about what i said and answer cause
		you truly believe that to be right?
    
				adam
		i agree with what you said...truly.
    
				cowboy
		what did i say?
    
				adam
		that a man's attitude determines to a
		large extent how his life will be.
    
				cowboy
		so since you agree i guess you could be a
		person who does not care about the good
		life.
    
				adam
		how's that?

    
				cowboy
		well, just stop for a little second and
		think about it. will ya do that for me?
    
				adam
		okay, i'm thinking.
    
				cowboy
		no. you're too busy being a smart aleck
		to be thinkin'. now i want ya to think
		and quit bein' such a smart aleck. can ya
		do that for me?
    
				adam
		look ... where's this going? what do you
		want me to do?
    
				cowboy
		there's sometimes a buggy. how many
		drivers does a buggy have?
    
				adam
		one.
    
				cowboy
		so let's just say i'm drivin' this buggy
		and you fix your attitude and you can
		ride along with me.
    
				adam
		okay.
    
				cowboy
		now i know a few things. i know you have
		had a rough day. you're probably thinkin'
		i don't know the half of it, but in
		actual fact i know every part of it. the
		business of gittin' thrown off your
		movie, the heartache of seeing your wife
		with another man... losin' access to that
		precious film vault...
    
adam suddenly looks stunned, unsure.
    
				cowboy (cont'd)
		... realizin' you don't have hardly a
		nickel to your name and then add on to
		that the sickenin' feeling some men are
		gonna catch you and hurt you bad for
		bustin' their vehicle. some days are like
		that. they are rough, but what will
		tomorrow bring? will it be better than
		today? the same ... or worse?
		a lot of that is up to us individually.
		up to us and our attitude. when the
		castigliane brothers said "this is no
		longer your film," they meant it, but
		they didn't mean you were not going to
		direct it. i want you to go back to work
		tomorrow. you were re-casting the lead
		actress anyway ... audition many girls for
		the part. when you see the girl that was
		shown to you earlier today, you will say
		" this is the girl." the rest of the
		cast can stay- that is up to you, but
		that lead girl is not up to you. now,
		you will see me one more time if you do
		good. you will see me two more times if
		you do bad. good night.
    
the cowboy turns and walks until he is engulfed in darkness.
through the darkness adam hears the sound of a car door
opening and closing, then another opening and closing and
then the sound of the car driving away. adam walks up in the
direction the cowboy took, but he sees no sign of a car nor
any dust nor any road. he goes back down past the barn and
stables to his car. there standing by his porsche is the
cowboy.
    
				cowboy (cont'd)
		you thinkin' this'll work out, cause i
		was thinkin' it just might.
    
				adam
		it will work out.
    
				cowboy
		good then, but, just in case, that bank's
		gonna stay closed a bit longer. you
		understand that?
    
				adam
		i understand.
    
				cowboy
		you're an understandin' fella.
    
				adam
		so, this is the last time i see you then
		unless i do bad?
    
				cowboy
		no, this one doesn't count. it's part of
		the original one. so then ... until we meet
		again.
    
				adam
		okay.
    
adam gets in his car and drives off leaving the cowboy
smiling behind him.
    
							cut to:
    
