int. conference room - day
    
the men in dark suits go in as if they owned the place. ray,
mr. darby and robert smith stand immediately. adam remains
seated. mr. darby is the only one near enough to attempt a
hand shake, but when he offers his hand it is not taken. the
men in dark suits sit down without wasting a movement and
without acknowledging anyone. one of the men in a dark suit
opens a briefcase. ray has been trying to make
introductions.
    
				ray
		ah... the castigliane brothers. let me
		introduce you around ... please ... sit down.
		(after they've already seated
		themselves) ... this is mr. darby whom you
		know and this is the director adam
		kesher and his manager robert smith
    
the castigliane brothers do not acknowledge any of this,
however, during the introductions the one with the briefcase
removes a photo of a girl and sets it in front of ray.
    
				ray (cont'd)
		ah... she's very pretty.
    
we see the photo of the girl - of a nice looking blonde -
someone we've never seen before. adam looks like he doesn't
know what's going on and he's getting upset about not
knowing. his manager, robert smith, is beginning to see the
makings of a confrontation - he's starting to panic.
    
				mr. darby
			(referring to castigliane
			brothers)
		may i offer you gentlemen anything?
    
				luigi castigliane
		espresso.

				vincenzo castigliane
		nothing. 
    
				adam
		uh  what's the photo for?
    
				mr. darby
			(picking up phone and speaking)
		one espresso ... no, that's it.
			(sets phone down - addresses
			castigliane brothers)
		i think you're going to enjoy your
		espresso this time... i've been doing
		quite a bit of research knowing how hard
		you are to please... this one comes highly
		recommended.
    
				adam
		what's the photo for?
    
				ray
			(to adam)
		a recommendation... a recommendation to
		you adam.
    
				vincenzo castigliane
		not a recommendation.
    
    
				luigi castigliane
		this is the girl.
    
				adam
		what girl? for what? what is this ray?
    
ray, still standing with a forced smile, turns to the
castigliane brothers.
    
				ray
		we'd be happy to put her in the pile for
		considerations ... you'd be pleased to know
		there's quite a lot of interest in this
		role.
    
				adam
		interest?! there's six of the top
		actresses that want this thing.
    
				luigi castigliane
		this is the girl.
    
				adam
		ray...you better take care of this.
    
				robert smith
		hold on ... hold on, adam.
    
				adam
		hold on!!!!!!!! there's no way, there's
		no way!!!
    
luigi castigliane's espresso is brought in by the man who had
been in earlier. the man sets the espresso down in front of
luigi and takes a step back. the room becomes silent -
watching the espresso man and luigi. without looking up luigi
speaks softly.
    
				luigi castigliane
		napkin.
    
				espresso man
			(leading forward to hear)
		pardon?
    
				luigi castigliane
		napkin.
    
				espresso man
		of course. excuse me.
    
the espresso man leaves the room. luigi looks at the
espresso. vincenzo stares at adam.
    
adam is doing his best to stare down vincenzo. the espresso
man returns with a cloth napkin and lays it down next to the
espresso.
    
				espresso man (cont'd)
		will that be all, sir?
    
luigi doesn't answer and after a moment of standing very
still waiting, the espresso man turns and leaves the room.
    
adam is stared down by vincenzo and averts his eyes to the
espresso cup. he looks around at ray and mr. darby - seeing
them stare at the espresso cup.
    
vincenzo keeps staring at adam.
    
luigi picks up the napkin and holds it in his left hand.
with his right hand he lifts the espresso cup and places it
above the napkin. he brings the cup and napkin to his mouth.
he takes a sip of espresso. a small fleeting expression forms
on luigi's impassive face as if for one millisecond he is
going to vomit. his mouth opens and he allows the espresso
to fall and dribble onto the napkin. he pushes any remaining
espresso in his mouth out with his tongue. he holds it in
that position for a moment.
    
				luigi castigliane
		is shit!
    
luigi castigliane stands up.
    
				ray
		i'm sorry. that was a highly
		recommended...
    
				mr. darby
		that's considered one of the finest
		espressos in the world , sir.
    
luigi just stands there. a small thread on his left suit
jacket pocket catches his attention and he smooths it back
into the fabric. vincenzo closes his briefcase, takes out a
hankerchief and cleans his nose - then stands, placing the
handkerchief back in his pocket.
    
				adam
		wait a minute!! what's going on here?
    
vincenzo just stares toward adam as if he's not even there.
    
				adam
		there's no way that girl is in my movie!
    
silence.

    
				luigi castigliane
		that is the girl.
    
the castigliane brothers begin to leave. adam stands up
trembling with anger.
    
				adam
		hey!!!!! that girl is not in my film!!!
    
				vincenzo castigliane
		it is no longer your film.
    
adam turns white and stands very still as this sinks in. the
castigliane brothers leave. as the big blonde wood doors
close behind them adam starts to boil.
    
				adam
			(screaming)
		you'd better fix this, ray!!!
    
				ray
		i'll speak to someone.
    
				adam
			(turning to his manager)
		and you'd better speak to someone
		too ... or find yourself another client!!
		this smells like a set-up to me!
			(back to ray)
		and by the way, ray, i don't know who
		these guys are kidding, but every foot of
		film i've shot is in a vault at the lab
		that only i can access. no one's getting
		that film!!
    
				robert smith
		this is a catastrophe...
			(turning toward ray)
		you told me they might insist on a girl,
		that's all.
    
				adam
		why didn't you tell me, robert? that's
		what i mean ... you set me up! i woulda
		never come here.
			(standing)
		i'm leaving. i'm a director you don't
		want to lose ... you guys better fix this!!
    
adam storms out of the room.

    
				ray
			(standing)
		well...i didn't know that was going to
		happen.
    
							cut to:
    
exterior - office building - century city - day
    
adam exits the building carrying his 7-iron. an attendant
takes his valet parking ticket. while adam, still fuming,
waits for his car he notices the big limo standing off to one
side. he stares at the car and the huge limo driver leaning
up against the front driver's side door.
    
adam's car arrives - a late model porsche. before adam gets
into his car he addresses the attendant.
    
				adam
		did the castigliane brothers get out of
		that limo?
    
				attendant
		they two guys in dark suits?
    
adam nods and walks over to the limo. the limo driver eyes
him and his 7-iron suspiciously.
    
				adam
		castigliane brothers?
    
				limo driver
		beat it!
    
				adam
		o.k.
    
adam raises his 7-iron and smashes out the limo's windshield.
he whacks two big dents in the hood, then smashes out a
headlight. the limo driver starts towards him. adam laughs,
runs to his car and takes off.
    
							cut to:
    
