ext. sierra bonita apartment - back alley - day
    
betty gets rita out of the cab and pays the driver, who then
drives away. the girls go through a rear gate and enter the
complex walking along a curving concrete walk. this leads
them to an intersection where a registry is printed on a
rough hewn wooden plaque. they scan the list.
    
				betty
		selwyn ... number 12.
    
they both look around the various doors near them. betty
spots a sign which says, behind an arrow, bungalows #10
through #20.
    
				betty (cont'd)
		it's this way.
    
they set off down another sidewalk toward bungalow #12. as
they near it and actually can see it just ahead they pass a
chainlink service gate to the alley. standing in the alley is
a man in a dark suit wearing sunglasses.
    
both girls dive for the bushes.
    
the man in the black suit turns reacting to the noise and
motion. both girls are trying to catch their breath and stay
as still and quiet as possible.
    
				betty (cont'd)
			(panting whisper)
		now, you've got me scared.
    
peering through the bushes they see the man still looking in
their direction. suddenly he turns and smiles at something
to his left.
    

he hurries off, but soon returns carrying two heavy
suitcases, followed by an older woman in a yellow dress.
both betty and rita crawl further forward. they see the limo
and realize that the man they were afraid of is an ordinary
limousine driver just going about his work. the girls stand
up, relieved and a little embarrassed.
    
				betty (cont'd)
		see, i told you there was nothing to be
		afraid of!
    
they go up to bungalow #12 and stand for a moment facing the
front door.
    
				rita
		oh no ... don't.
    
betty doesn't listen to rita. she knocks strongly on the
door. they stand waiting. there's no answer so betty knocks
again harder. they wait.
    
				rita (cont'd)
		no one's ...
    
suddenly the door opens. an attractive middle-aged woman
stands before them.
    
				middle-aged woman
		yes?
    
				betty
		diane?
    
				middle-aged woman
		number 17.
    
				betty
		but it said #12.
    
				middle-aged woman
		i switched apartments with her. she's in
		#17. just walk down that way. it's just
		to the right.
    
the woman seems to be looking now at rita.
    
				middle-aged woman (cont'd)
		it's kind of hidden by the foliage.
    
betty and rita start to leave.
    
				middle-aged woman (cont'd)
		she hasn't been around for a few days ...

    
				betty
		well ... we'll leave her a note.
    
				middle-aged woman
			(starting toward them)
		i'll go with you. she's still got some of
		my stuff.
    
the phone rings from inside her bungalow.
    
				middle-aged woman (cont'd)
			(turning back)
		oh ... go ahead. i've got to get that.
    
the woman hurries back inside and closes the door. betty and
rita quickly move up the walkway toward bungalow #17.
    
				betty
		i guess you're not diane.
    
rita, still fighting her fear doesn't answer.
    
they reach bungalow #17. it's set back beneath tall bushes
and an old eucalyptus tree. the front door is in deep shadow.
without even looking at rita betty knocks quickly. there's no
answer. she knocks again.
    
				betty (cont'd)
		still not home i guess.
    
the girls drift off to the side of the bungalow. betty tries
to see in the windows. she tries a window and to her surprise
it opens.
    
				rita
		i don't think...
    
				betty
			(looking around for anyone
			watching)
		c'mon help me in. i'll open the front
		door.
    
				rita
		no.
    
betty jumps up and catches her knees on the siding, her head
through the open window.
    
				betty
		push!!!

    
rita reluctantly pushes and betty is in. as she closes the
window ...
    
				betty (cont'd)
		meet you at the door.
    
rita walks around to the front door and gets there just as
betty opens it. betty has her hand over her mouth and nose.
    
				betty (cont'd)
		i don't know if you want to come in here
		or not. there's some kind of horrible
		smell like... something...
    
rita is compelled to go in and as the door clicks shut she
reacts to the smell.
    
							cut to:
    
