int. ext. - cadillac limousine
    
the driver, still in his seat, has a pistol with a silencer
attached pointing at the woman. the other man is getting out
of the car. the woman is clutching the seat and the door
handle as if trying to anchor herself. she is visibly afraid.
the man who got out of the car tries the woman's door, but it
is locked. he smiles as he reaches in through the front door
and unlocks her door. he opens her door. as he reaches for
her, the woman's face becomes flooded with light. her eyes
dart to the front windshield. the driver, flooded with light,
turns just as the late model sedan slams into the cadillac
limousine. there is an explosion of metal and glass amidst
thunderous tearing sounds as the two cars become one in
death. the convertible screams past with hardly a notice.
the driver of the limousine dies instantly as his body is
jettisoned through the windshield. the other man is torn as
the cars screech over him. the woman is brutally thrown into
the back of the front seats as a cloud of dust and flying
rocks engulfs her. the disastrous moving sculpture of the two
cars wants to climb up the hill, then stops and slides back
toward the road the cadillac tips onto its side. then all is
silent. a fire erupts in the sedan and as the dust clears we
see the woman appear, then crawl out of the cadillac to the
road. her face is vacant. there is a bleeding cut just above
her forehead. she stands for a moment clutching her purse -
lost , then begins to walk as if in a trance across
mulholland down through the bushes and into darkness.

							dissolve to:
    
