82	int: inner courtyard - night

the three come careening into the long narrow inner courtyard.
balconies look down on it from the floor above. opposite them is a
large ornate door. they have a lead on the goblins chasing them, but
not for long.

another angle

on one of the balconies a particularly repulsive little goblin laughs
sadistically. the three look up and see the goblin with his hands on
a huge lever. he pushes it down gleefully and the floor opens up in
front of the threesome. it appears to be a bottomless pit, too wide
to leap across. horrified they look behind them and see the goblins
gaining on them. and they're throwing spears! suddenly there is a
triumphant yell from the balcony opposite the repulsive goblin, and
then a figure leaps off it swinging on a rope.

sarah: hoggle!

it certainly is! he wrestles with the hideous goblin and in the
struggle it falls screaming into the pit. hoggle then grabs the lever
and it is not a second too soon. the pursuing goblins are entering
the courtyard.

another angle

the floor closes and the three run to the door. an enraged pursuer
aims a spear at hoggle. he is hit. sarah screams as ludo struggles
with the door. it won't budge and he begins to smash his body against
it.

another angle

a seemingly half-dead hoggle staggers to his feet and throws his body
on the lever. he appears to faint from the strain but the weight of
his body pushes the lever and the floor opens again.

another angle

the enraged goblins are stopped in their tracks by the yawning pit.
they hurl spears at the threesome but it is to no avail. ludo smashes
down the door and they run in.

