ext.  ambassador hotel - day

he steps through the door and raises his pistol.  he fires
into the air.

the dogs turn.

he fires his pistol into the air again.

the dogs stop brutalizing the deer and just glare at him.
they begin growling.

neville quickly holsters his pistol and brings up his machine
gun.

he cautiously steps toward the rover.  now the beasts are
growling, snarling and barking.  neville returns their fierce
glare.

neville prepares to fire the machine gun in the air when --
as if some secret signal were given -- they attack --

the largest dog leaps from the hood of the car toward neville
-- he fires -- the dog contorts in midair -- the others race
at him -- neville is forced to fire steadily -- bullets
ricochet wildly off the asphalt and slam into some of the
dogs -- one is almost on him, jaws wide -- neville slams it
to the side with his gun -- the others in the pack are
pulling back -- but circling -- staying close --

neville cautiously moves to the rover -- spinning around to
keep the dogs at bay -- they remain crouched, predatory --

he sees that one of the ricocheting shots from his gun has
pierced the right front tire of the rover.  damn.  he checks
the position of the sun.  damn.  no time to change the tire.
not with the dogs.

the dogs are now beginning to creep closer, snarling.

neville leaps into the rover -- the dogs attack -- neville
just manages to slam the door -- a ferocious dog snarls and
snaps at the window -- other dogs leap onto the hood --
neville speeds off -- the dogs are tossed off the rover --
they immediately race in pursuit --

