109	int. storage bay in the hospital - day

lukey stands guard. mcdermott has joined sarah and john in a strategy 
huddle. toby stands nearby, feeling strangely guilty.

sarah
toby's right. they're not gonna sit around 
with their fingers up their asses while we 
bust up their toys.

john
datura.

sarah
what?

john
datura metel. the devil's trumpet. don't 
worry. i ain't goin' religioso again. it's 
a flower that grows on these islands. where 
i come from the voodoo priests used it 
whenever they needed a mickey finn. it's 
toxic. ground up you can put it in a drink 
or inject it...or...in a sealed area it 
might be introduced through the ventilation 
system.

sarah
datura! miguel knew it! datura, he was 
shouting! datura metel!

john
we always planned to use it. we got some 
ground up already...but we could never find 
enough.

sarah
there's hundreds of 'em. right where we 
landed our boat.

toby
this stuff really works? no shit?

john
quicker than gas. and it smells a lot 
prettier. it usually don't kill but it puts 
ya under fer a good night's sleep.

toby
if you could knock out the central 
communications room you could foul up their 
whole intercom system. then, if you move 
fast enough, stay ahead of 'em...without 
bein' able to signal each other, they might 
have a hard time catchin' you.

john
i say it's poetic. pure calypso, brother. 
the devil's trumpet blowin' the notes o' 
doom for the devil's troops. ha ha ha ha 
ha...

