int.  room 1313

across the room, a dark figure stares out the tall windows
veiled with decaying lace.  he turns and his smile lights
up the room

                         morpheus
          at last.

he wears a long black coat and his eyes are invisible
behind circular mirrored glasses.

he strides to neo and they shake hands.

                         morpheus
          welcome, neo.  as you no doubt have
          guessed, i am morpheus.

                         neo
          it's an honor.

                         morpheus
          please.  come.  sit.

he nods to trinity.

                         morpheus
          thank you, trinity.

she bows her head sharply and exits through a door to an
adjacent room.

they sit across from one another in cracked, burgundy-
leather chairs.

                         morpheus
          i imagine, right now, you must be
          feeling a bit like alice, tumbling
          down the rabbit hole?

                         neo
          you could say that.

                         morpheus
          i can see it in your eyes.  you have
          the look of a man who accepts what
          he sees because he is expecting to
          wake up.

a smile, razor-thin, curls the corner of his lips.

                         morpheus
          ironically, this is not far from the
          truth.  but i'm getting ahead of
          myself.  can you tell me, neo, why
          are you here?

                         neo
          you're morpheus, you're a legend.
          most hackers would die to meet you.

                         morpheus
          yes.  thank you.  but i think we
          both know there's more to it than
          that.  do you believe in fate, neo?

                         neo
          no.

                         morpheus
          why not?

                         neo
          because i don't like the idea that
          i'm not in control of my life.

                         morpheus
          i know exactly what you mean.

again, that smile that could cut glass.

                         morpheus
          let me tell you why you are here.
          you have come because you know
          something.  what you know you can't
          explain but you feel it.  you've
          felt it your whole life, felt that
          something is wrong with the world.
          you don't know what, but it's there
          like a splinter in your mind,
          driving you mad.  it is this feeling
          that brought you to me.  do you know
          what i'm talking about?

                         neo
          the matrix?

                         morpheus
          do you want to know what it is?

neo swallows hard and nods.

                         morpheus
          the matrix is everywhere, it's all
          around us, here even in this room.
          you can see it out your window or on
          your television.  you feel it when
          you go to work, or go to church or
          pay your taxes.  it is the world
          that has been pulled over your eyes
          to blind you from the truth.

                         neo
          what truth?

                         morpheus
          that you are a slave, neo.  like
          everyone else, you were born into
          bondage, kept inside a prison that
          you cannot smell, taste, or touch.
          a prison for your mind.

the leather creaks as he leans back.

                         morpheus
          unfortunately, no one can be told
          what the matrix is.  you have to see
          it for yourself.

morpheus opens his hands.  in the right is a red pill.  in
the left, a blue pill.

                         morpheus
          this is your last chance.  after
          this, there is no going back.  you
          take the blue pill and the story
          ends.  you wake in your bed and you
          believe whatever you want to
          believe.

the pills in his open hands are reflected in the glasses.

                         morpheus
          you take the red pill and you stay
          in wonderland and i show you how
          deep the rabbit hole goes.

neo feels the smooth skin of the capsules, the moisture
growing in his palms.

                         morpheus
          remember that all i am offering is
          the truth.  nothing more.

neo opens his mouth and swallows the red pill.  the
cheshire smile returns.

                         morpheus
          follow me.

he leads neo into the other room, which is cramped with
high-tech equipment, glowing ash-blue and electric green
from the racks of monitors.

trinity, apoc and cypher look up as they enter.

                         morpheus
          apoc, are we on-line?

                         apoc
          almost.

he and trinity are working quickly, hard-wiring a complex
system of monitors, modules and drives.

                         morpheus
          neo, time is always against us.
          will you take a seat there?

neo sits in a chair in the center of the room and trinity
begins gently fixing white electrode disks to his head,
arms, and the back of his neck.  near the chair is an old
oval dressing mirror that is cracked.

he whispers to trinity:

                         neo
          you did all this?

she nods, placing a set of headphones over his ears.  they
are wired to an old hotel phone.

                         morpheus
          the pill you took is part of a trace
          program.  it's designed to disrupt
          your input/output carrier signal so
          we can pinpoint your location.

                         neo
          what does that mean?

                         cypher
          it means buckle up, dorothy, 'cause
          kansas is going bye-bye.

distantly, through the ear phones, he hears apoc pounding
on a keyboard.  sweat beads his face.  his eyes blink and
twitch when he notices the mirror.

wide-eyed, he stares as it begins to heal itself, a
webwork of cracks that slowly run together as though the
mirror were becoming liquid.

                         neo
          shit...

cypher works with apoc, checking reams of phosphorescent
data.  trinity monitors neo's electric vital signs.

neo reaches out to touch the mirror and his fingers
disappear beneath the rippling surface.

quickly, he tries to pull his fingers out but the mirror
stretches in long rubbery strands like mirrored-taffy
stuck to his fingertips.

                         morpheus
          have you ever had a dream, neo, that
          you were so sure was real?

                         neo
          this can't be...

                         morpheus
          be what?  be real?

the strands thin like rubber cement as he pulls away,
until the fragile wisps of mirror thread break.

                         morpheus
          what if you were unable to wake from
          that dream, neo?  how would you know
          the difference between the dream
          world and the real world?

with the tinkling of glass, shimmering snowflakes of
electric-blinking mercury fall, hit the ground, and fade.

neo looks at his hand; fingers distended into mirrored
icicles that begin to melt rapidly, dripping, running like
wax down his fingers, spreading across his palm where he
sees his face reflected.

                         neo
          uh-oh...

                         trinity
          it's going into replication.

                         morpheus
          apoc?

                         apoc
          still nothing.

morpheus takes out a cellular phone and dials a number.

                         morpheus
          tank, we're going to need the signal
          soon.

the mirror gel seems to come to life, racing, crawling up
his arms like hundreds of insects.

                         neo
          it's cold.

the mirror creeps up his neck as neo begins to panic,
tipping his head as though he were sinking into the
mirror, trying to keep his mouth up.

                         neo
          it's all over me --

morpheus is right next to him with the phone.

                         trinity
          i got a fibrillation!

                         morpheus
          shit!  apoc?

streams of mercury run from neo's nose.

                         apoc
          targeting... almost there.

an alarm on trinity's monitor erupts.

                         trinity
          he's going into arrest!

                         apoc
          lock!  i got him!

                         morpheus
          now, tank, now!

his eyes tear with mirror, rolling up and closing as a
high-pitched electric scream erupts in the headphones --

it is a piercing shriek like a computer calling to another
computer --

neo's body arches in agony and we are pulled like we were
