trinity hurtles into the empty night space, her body
leveling into a dive.  she falls, arms covering her head
as --


her pov

the whole world seems to spin on its axis --


back to scene

and she crashes with an explosion of glass and wood, then
falls onto a back stairwell, tumbling, bouncing down
stairs bleeding, broken --

but still alive.

through the smashed window, she glimpses agent brown,
still on the train, his tie and coat whipping in the wind;
stone-faced, he touches his ear piece as the train slides
him past the window.

trinity tries to move.  everything hurts.

                         trinity
          get up, trinity.  you're fine.  get
          up -- just get up!

she stands and limps down the rest of the stairs.

trinity emerges from the shadows of an alley and, at the
end of the block, in a pool of white street light, she
sees it.

the telephone booth.

obviously hurt, she starts down the concrete walk,
focusing in completely, her pace quickening, as the phone
begins to ring.

across the street, a garbage truck suddenly turns u-turns,
its tires screaming as it accelerates.

trinity sees the headlights of the truck arcing at the
telephone booth as if taking aim.

gritting through the pain, she races the truck --

slamming into the booth, the headlights blindingly bright,
bearing down on the box of plexiglas just as --

she answers the phone.

there is a frozen instant of silence before the hulking
mass of dark metal lurches up onto the sidewalk --

barrelling through the booth, bulldozing it into a brick
wall, smashing it to plexiglas pulp.

after a moment, a black loafer steps down from the cab of
the garbage truck.  agent smith inspects the wreckage.
there is no body.  trinity is gone.

his jaw sets as he grinds his molars in frustration.
agent jones walks up behind him.

                         agent jones
          then the informant is real.

                         agent smith
          does that surprise you?  it was
          inevitable.

                         agent jones
          he'll be contacting us again.

                         agent smith
          expect it.  did you get anything
          from the room?

                         agent jones
          their next target.  the name is neo.

the handset of the pay phone lays on the ground, separated
in the crash like a severed limb.

                         agent smith
          we'll need a search running.

                         agent jones
          it's already begun.

we are sucked towards the mouthpiece of the phone, closer
and closer, until the smooth gray plastic spreads out like
a horizon and the small holes widen until we fall through
one --

swallowed by darkness.

the darkness begins to ripple with bright flashes of bone
white as we pull out of the eye of a skull.

it is a computer screen saver; the jolly roger flutters
against an electronic wind.

