int. morgue - night

in the morgue, laurel has fallen asleep on her desk, her head in her arms.
rosenberg's cat sits on the desk next to her, licking its paws. suddenly,
the cat looks up, meowing urgently.

laurel looks up and, following the cat's gaze, turns around slowly in her
chair. jay and kay stand in the doorway, staring at her. kay steps
forward, holding out that black card again. it reforms into another kind
of official id, this time it says "department of public health"

				laurel
			(into recorder)
		...approximately 112 degrees at time of
		autopsy, indicating, quite impossibly, a
		post-mortem increase in body temperature.
		examiner attempted to verify result
		rectally, only to find subject was, uh,
		without rectum. which can only be described
		as...well...as really...

				kay (o.s.)
		weird? dr. leo menville, department of
		public health. this is dr. white.

she looks up. jay and kay are standing there.

				laurel
		yeah, well whoever you are, i'm afraid i'm
		going to need to see some id.

he hands her his carte noir, which changes to read "dr. menville,
department of public health." she hands it back.

				laurel
			(checking her watch)
		you boys must not have much of a home life.

				kay
		we watch the morgues very carefully. you've
		got something unusual?

				laurel
		i'd say so -- triple homicide.

she gets up and goes to the arquillian's body, which is still out on a
table under the lights.

				laurel (cont'd)
		the first corpse was perfectly normal,
		except that he was broken in half, but when
		i opened up the other two -- well, look.

she throws back a sheet, revealing (to them only, not us) the fully
dissected arquillian. kay raises an eyebrow; jay nearly retches.

				laurel (cont'd)
		there's a skeletal structure at work here
		unlike anything i've ever seen.

kay steps past her, going straight to the body. he begins to examine it.

				kay
		i'll have a look at this one. dr. white,
		why don't you and dr. weaver check out the
		other body?

				laurel
		this way, doctor.

jay and laurel cross the room, to where rosenberg's corpse lies out on
another gurney.

				laurel (cont'd)
		this one's even stranger. i did a full
		laparotomy. i started with the lesser
		curvature of the stomach -- though, if you
		want, we could begin at the gastro-esophageal
		junction.

				jay
		i think, uh, we should start at the same
		place you did.

				laurel
		all right.

jay hears a meow and looks down. rosenberg's cat is rubbing up against his
leg.

				jay
		your cat?

				laurel
		guess it is now. came in with the bodies.

she snaps one of her rubber gloves and reaches down (out of frame),
sinking her hands into the body as she moves things aside. just by the
look on jay's face, one can imagine how disgusting it is.

laurel digs in, up to her elbows. jay winces. she pulls one bloody glove
out, to wipe a strand of hair out of her face. he looks at her --

-- and she winks at him. he's surprised. she laughs.

				laurel (cont'd)
		okay. dive right in. god knows he won't
		mind.

jay is reluctant, so she rolls her eyes and helps him, taking him by the
hand and guiding him into the thick of the corpse.

				laurel (cont'd)
		you have very pretty eyes.

				jay
		thank-you, but is this really the time to
		uh -- you know, come on to me?

				laurel
		hey, just walking the dog.
			(continuing)
		feel that? where the piloric junction would
		be?

				jay
		oh, yes. exactly.

				laurel
		now push that aside. notice anything
		strange? stomach? liver? lungs?

				jay
		nope. all fine.

				laurel
		doctor, they're all missing.

				jay
			(quickly)
		well, of course they are. what i'm pointing
		out is that there are no pieces of them
		left. so they're intact, wherever they are.
		that we can be sure of.

				laurel
		have we met before? i have the strangest
		feeling of deja vu.

				jay
		you know, i was just going to ask you the
		same thing.

laurel looks at him sideways, skeptical, but also intrigued. she whispers
to him. confiding in him.

				laurel
		okay. you wanna know what i really think?
			(re: kay)
		but don't tell that guy. he looks like he's
		already under enough stress.
			(then)
		this body is not really a body, but it's
		actually some sort of transport unit for
		something else altogether. the question is:
		what?

jay just looks at her intrigued.

				laurel
		by the way, stop me if i'm freaking you out.

				jay
		no, no...not at all.

after a particularly gross gushy sound, he looks away, toward her. she's
staring at him.

laurel leans over and lowers her voice, just for him.

				laurel
		you know what i like to do sometimes? when
		it's really late?

				jay
			(freaked out)
		no...

from the other side of the room, kay clears his throat.

				jay (cont'd)
		excuse me.

he walks across the morgue to kay, who is still examining the arquillian.
but jay never takes his eyes off laurel.

				kay
		what do you think?

				jay
			(of laurel)
		very interesting. got a real queen of the
		undead thing goin' on.

				kay
		of the body.

				jay
		great body.

				kay
		the dead body?

				jay
		not a clue.

				kay
		all right. keep her occupied. try not to
		sound too dumb.

across the morgue, laurel is still examining rosenberg, now bent down next
to his head, carefully studying his left ear. she notices something
strange, turns, and calls over her shoulder to jay.

				laurel
		dr. white.

jay, in conversation with kay, does not respond to what is not his name.

				laurel (cont'd)
			(louder)
		dr. white.
			(still louder)
		dr. white.

he still doesn't answer.

				laurel (cont'd)
			(shouting)
		dr. white!

kay nudges jay.

				kay
		you're up, slugger.

jay turns and races across the room to rejoin her.

				laurel
		look at this.

jay leans down. there is strange stitching around the base of rosenberg's
ear.

				jay
		what is that?

he reaches out, touches the ear, then he actually turns it. with a soft
click --

-- it pulls away from the head. like a latch.

jay and laurel look at each other, astonished. jay pulls again, and
rosenberg's entire face pushes out with a mechanical hum, then hinges
open, the whole face rotating out away from the rest of the artificial
skull.

a tiny little green man sits inside rosenberg's head.

though not quite dead, the tiny little green man is gravely wounded. he
staggers up out of a small control room inside rosenberg's head, with
gearshifts and viewing screens all around the inside of the skull.

				laurel
		far -- freaking -- out.

they lean in closer. the tiny little green man (a baltian) forces words
out of his mouth.

				baltian
		must -- to pre -- prevent --
			(searching for the word)
		-- contest? no...to prevent --

				jay
		it's all right -- what are you trying to
		say? struggle?

				laurel
		war?

the baltian nods vigorously. that's it.

				baltian
			(faltering)
		galaxy on -- or -- or -- orion's --
			(thinks)
		what is word? be...?

				jay
		bed? belt? orion's belt?

the baltian nods again, falls, and dies. jay and laurel look at the little
dead alien, then at each other.

				jay (cont'd)
		"to prevent war, the galaxy is on orion's
		belt?"  the hell does that mean?
			(turns around)
		hey! kay! i mean, dr., uh, whatever, come
		here!

kay begins over. laurel looks at them.

				laurel
		"doctor whatever"? you're not with the
		department of public health, are you?

jay shakes his head -- but is now paying more attention to kay, as he
leads him toward the little man.

				jay
		he's dead.

kay looks at the mess -- the body, the little dead man.

				kay
		rosenberg. damn. good man.

				jay
		you knew him?

				kay
		one of the few i actually liked. exiled
		high prince.

				laurel
		i was right -- this is an alien life form,
		and you're from some government agency who
		wants to keep it under wraps...

kay and jay are not paying attention to laurel.

				jay
		he said "to prevent war, the galaxy is on
		orion's belt."

				laurel
		... this make total sense. how else do you
		explain new york? the other night i'm in a
		cab, this guy...

flash! without even looking at her, kay whips out his neuralyzer and
blanks her out.

				kay
		he said there's a galaxy on orion's belt?
		that makes no sense.

				jay
		that's what he said.
			(to the dazed laurel)
		didn't he? right after he --
			(realizing)
		oh, for christ's sake, you did the flashy
		thing already.

				laurel
			(as if awakening)
		uh, hi, whoever you guys are, i'm afraid
		i'm going to need to see some id if you're
		going to be in the morgue, okay?

				kay
		sure thing, sweetheart. here you go.

flash! he neuralyzes her again. jay slaps his hand.

				jay
		stop that --

				kay
			(to laurel, ignoring jay)
		typical day, too much caffeine, get a life.

				jay
		-- that thing probably gives you brain
		cancer!

				kay
		never hurt her before.

				jay
		"never hurt her before"?! how many times
		have you done the flashy thing to this poor
		woman?!

				kay
			(evasive)
		couple.

				jay
		aren't you worried about, you know, long
		term damage?

				kay
			(more evasive)
		little bit.

				jay
		what the hell happened to make you such a
		callous son of a bitch?

				kay
		i took this job.

he heads out. jay follows.

				jay
		hey, you never flashed me with that thing,
		did you?

				kay
		nah.

