ext. farmhouse - night

a lonely farmhouse stands amid the fields of upstate new york farm
country. several lights are on and through a window we can see the
silhouette of a man sitting at the kitchen table, the silhouette of a
woman hovering over him, bringing things to him.

the man (edgar) waves his arms, ranting.

				edgar (o.s.)
		i go out, i work my butt off to make a
		living, all i want is to come home to a
		nice clean house with a nice fat steak on
		the table, but instead i get this -- this
		-- i don't even know what you call this!

in the sky above, it's one of those brilliant star fields. but something
strange is happening with one of those stars -- it's getting bigger.

				edgar (o.s.)
		i'll tell you what it looks like, it looks
		like poison. don't you take that away, i'm
		eating that, damn it! it is poison, isn't
		it?!

no, that star isn't getting bigger, it's moving. toward us. fast. it goes
from a pinpoint to a dime, to a nickel, to a quarter, and works its way
into fruit metaphors.

				edgar (o.s.)
		i swear to god, i would not be surprised if
		it was, the way you skulk around here like
		a dog been hit too much -- or ain't been
		hit enough, i can't make up my mind.

okay, we're way past watermelon now, that thing is huge, and it's starting
to glow hot red as it enters the earth's atmosphere, headed straight
toward us, coming here, to beatrice and edgar's place.

the blazing fireball barrels through the sky, snaps off a couple trees --

				edgar (o.s.)
		you're useless, beatrice! the only thing
		that pulls its weight around here is my
		goddamn truck!

-- and slams right through a pickup truck parked in the driveway. a
concussive blast follows, then a geyser of smoke and flame erupts.

				edgar (o.s.)
		stay here!

the silhouette of edgar leaps to its feet, races to the door, and throws
it open. edgar is everything his voice led us to expect -- a nasty,
bug-eyed redneck carrying a twelve-gauge shotgun. his mouth agape, he
walks across the yard and stares at the hulking shell that was his truck.
the skeleton of the truck is still there, but there's a huge, smoldering
hole in it, a hole that goes at least ten feet down into the ground.

				edgar
		figures.

he walks to the truck and touches the door handle. hot. using his shirt
tail, he opens the door and peers down into the hole.

in the hole, he sees a smooth curve of metal and a few blinking lights.
embedded into the ground is, indeed, a spaceship, maybe eight feet across.

beatrice calls from behind him, standing in the doorway fearfully.

				beatrice
		what is it, edgar?!

				edgar
			(turns to her)
		get your big butt back in that house!

beatrice does as she's told, closing the door behind her. edgar turns back
to the smoldering rock, raising his shotgun in defense. an otherworldly
voice comes from deep in the hole.

				voice (o.s.)
		place projectile weapon on ground.

edgar staggers back a step, terrified. but then he regains himself, raises
the weapon, and steps forward, pointing it menacingly down into the hole.

				edgar
		you can have my gun when you pry it from my
		cold, dead fingers!

there is a pause while the voice thinks about this offer. finally, it
responds, in a voice and cadence remarkably similar to edgar's.

				voice (o.s.)
		your proposal is acceptable.

a long, hairy pincer flashes out of the hole, grabs edgar by the head, and
pulls him down into the hole.

from deep in the hole, we hear a terrible ripping sound, like a bedsheet
being torn in half. there are some disgusting gushy sounds, then a moment
later, something flies out of the hole and flops onto the ground next to
the truck.

it's edgar. well, sort of. his body parts still hang together -- face,
arms, legs, even clothes -- but everything inside has been removed and now
he just lies there, flat and empty, like a tuxedo on the floor after the
prom.

the shotgun flies out and lands beside him.

								cut to:

