int.  neo's apartment

it is a studio apartment that seems overgrown with
technology.

weed-like cables coil everywhere, duct-taped into thickets
that wind up and around the legs of several desks.

tabletops are filled with cannibalized equipment that lay
open like an autopsied corpse.

at the center of this technological rat-nest is neo, a man
who knows more about living inside a computer than outside
one.

he is asleep in front of his pc.  behind him, the computer
screen suddenly goes blank.  a prompt appears:  "wake up,
neo."

neo's eye pries open.  he sits up, one eye still closed,
looking around, unsure of where he is.  he notices the
screen.

he types "ctrl x" but the letter "t" appears.

                         neo
          what...?

he hits another and an "h" appears.  he keeps typing,
pushing random functions and keys while the computer types
out a message as though it had a mind of its own.

he stops and stares at the four words on the screen:
"the matrix has you."

                         neo
          what the hell?

he hits the "esc" button.  another message appears:
"follow the white rabbit."

he hits it again and the message repeats.  he rubs his
eyes but when he opens them, there is another message:
"knock, knock, neo."

someone knocks on his door and he almost jumps out of his
chair.  he looks back at the computer but the screen is
now blank.

someone knocks again.  neo rises, still unnerved.

                         neo
          who is it?

                         choi (o.s.)
          it's choi.

neo opens the door, leaving the chain on.  a young chinese
man stands with several of his friends.

                         neo
          you're two hours late.

                         choi
          i know.  it's her fault.

his girlfriend only has to smile.

                         neo
          you got the money?

                         choi
          two grand.

he takes out an envelope and gives it to neo through the
cracked door.

                         neo
          hold on.

he closes the door.  on the floor near his bed is a book,
baudrillard's simulacra simulations.  the book has been
hollowed out and inside are several computer disks.  he
takes one, sticks the money in the book and drops it on
the floor.

opening the door, he hands the disk to choi.

                         choi
          hallelujah!  you are my savior, man!
          my own personal jesus christ!

                         neo
          if you get caught using that --

                         choi
          i know, i know.  this never
          happened.  you don't exist.

                         neo
          right...

neo nods as the strange feeling of unrealness suddenly
returns.

                         choi
          something wrong, man?  you look a
          little whiter than usual.

                         neo
          i don't know... my computer...

he looks back at choi, unable to explain what just
happened.

                         neo
          you ever have the feeling that
          you're not sure if you're awake or
          still dreaming?

                         choi
          all the time.  it's called mescaline
          and it is the only way to fly.

he smiles and slaps the hand of his nearest droog.

                         choi
          it sounds to me like you need to
          unplug, man.  a little r and r.
          what do you think, dujour, should we
          take him with us?

                         dujour (girlfriend)
          definitely.

                         neo
          i can't.  i have to work tomorrow.

                         dujour
          come on.  it'll be fun.  i promise.

he looks up at her and suddenly notices on her black
leather motorcycle jacket dozens of pins:  bands, symbols,
slogans, military medals and --

a small white rabbit.

the room tilts.

                         neo
          yeah, yeah.  sure, i'll go.


