int.  neo's cubicle

the entire floor looks like a human honeycomb, with a
labyrinth of cubicles structured around a core of
elevators.

neo slumps down into his chair.

                         voice (o.s.)
          thomas anderson?

neo turns and finds a federal express man at his cubicle
door.

                         neo
          yeah.  that's me.

neo signs the electronic pad and the fedex man hands him
the softpak.

                         fedex man
          have a nice day.

he opens the bag.  inside is a cellular phone.  it seems
the instant it is in his hand, it rings.  unnerved, he
flips it open.

                         neo
          hello?

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          hello, neo.  do you know who this
          is?

neo's knees give and he sinks into his chair.

                         neo
          morpheus...

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          i've been looking for you, neo.  i
          don't know if you're ready to see
          what i want to show you, but
          unfortunately, we have run out of
          time.  they're coming for you, neo.
          and i'm not sure what they're going
          to do.

                         neo
          who's coming for me?

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          stand up and see for yourself.

                         neo
          right now?

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          yes.  now.

neo starts to stand.

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          do it slowly.  the elevator.

his head peeks up over the partition.

at the elevator, he sees agent brown and agent jones
leading a group of cops.  a female employee turns and
points out neo's cubicle.

neo ducks.

                         neo
          holy fucking shit!

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          yes.

one cop stays at the elevator, the others follow the
agents.

                         neo
          what the fuck do they want with me?!

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          i'm not sure, but if you don't want
          to find out, you better get out of
          there.

                         neo
          how?!

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          i can guide you out, but you have to
          do exactly what i say.

the agents are moving quickly towards the cubicle.

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          the cubicle across from you is
          empty.

                         neo
          but what if...?

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          go!  now!

neo lunges across the hall, diving into the other cubicle
just as the agents turn into his row.

neo crams himself into a dark corner, clutching the phone
tightly to him.

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          stay here for a moment.

the agents enter neo's empty cubicle.  a cop is sent to
search the bathroom.

morpheus' voice is a whisper in neo's ear.

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          a little longer...

brown is talking to another employee.

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          when i tell you, go to the end of
          the row to the first office on the
          left, stay as low as you can.

sweat trickles down his forehead.

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          now.

neo rolls out of the cubicle, his eyes popping as he
freezes right behind a cop who has just turned around.

staying crouched, he sneaks away down the row, shooting
across the opening to the first office on the left.

the room is empty.

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          good.  now there is a window.  open
          it.

                         neo
          how do you know all this?

morpheus laughs quietly.

                         morpheus
          the answer is coming, neo.

he opens the window.  the wind howls into the room.

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          outside, there's a scaffold.  you
          can use it to get to the roof.

leaning out the window, he sees that the scaffold is
several offices away.

                         neo
          no!  it's too far away.

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          there's a small ledge.  it's a short
          climb.  you can make it.

neo looks down; the building's glass wall vertigoes into a
concrete chasm.

                         neo
          no way, no way, this is crazy.

                         morpheus (v.o.)
          there are only two ways out of this
          building.  one is that scaffold.
          the other is in their custody.  you
          take a chance either way.  i leave
          it to you.

click.  he hangs up.  neo looks at the door, then back at
the scaffold.

                         neo
          this is insane!  why is this
          happening to me?  what did i do?
          i'm nobody.  i didn't do anything.
          fuck!  fuck!  fuck!

he climbs up onto the window ledge.  hanging onto the
frame, he steps onto the small ledge.

the scaffold seems even farther away.

                         neo
          i'm going to die.

the wind suddenly blasts up the face of the building,
knocking neo off balance.  recoiling, he clings harder to
the frame, and the phone falls out of his hand.

he watches as it is swallowed by the distance beneath him.

                         neo
          this is insane!  i can't do this!
          forget it!

he climbs back into the office just as a cop opens the
door.

                         neo
          i didn't do anything!


