int. bridge of khazad-dum, moria -- day

the fellowship run into a hall...the floor is split with
fissures that spit flame.

                    gandalf
              (yelling)
          over the bridge! fly!

they race towards the slender bridge of stone...without kerb
or rail...at the far end of the hall. the fellowship
recklessly hurry over the dizzying bridge..but gandalf... the
last..pauses in the middle of the span...he faces the
balrog...staff in one hand...sword in the other! frodo looks
back in horror:

                    gandalf (cont'd)
          you cannot pass!

                    frodo
              (alarmed yell)
          gandalf!

                    gandalf
              (yelling)
          i am a servant of the secret fire,
          wielder of the flame of anor. the dark
          fire will not avail you, flame of udun.

frodo watches as the balrog puts one foot on the bridge and
draws up to full height, wings spreading from wall-to-wall.
gandalf is a tiny figure, balanced precariously on the narrow
bridge.

                    gandalf (cont'd)
          go back to the shadow! the balrog slashes
          at gandalf with its sword of

flame...gandalf blocks with his sword...a ringing clash and
the balrog's sword shatters into molten fragments!

                    gandalf (cont'd)
              (booming)
          you shall not pass!! the balrog places
          one foot onto the bridge. aragorn and
          boromir race forward, swords drawn.

gandalf cries aloud as he summons up his last reserves of
strength!

                                                    (continued)

continued:

he thumps the bridge with his staff...a blinding sheet of
white flame springs up... the staff shatters...the bridge
breaks... right at balrog's feet. the stone bridge drops away
into the gulf...from under the balrog. for a moment, the
great beast remains poised in the air...then it plunges down:
in slow motion relief floods frodo's face..gandalf remains
trembling on the lip of the broken bridge. slow motion: as
the balrog falls, he lashes out with his whip of fire... slow
motion: the thongs of the whip lash and curl around gandalf's
knees, dragging him over the brink! gandalf just manages to
hand on by his fingertips

                    frodo
              (screaming)
          gandalf!

                    gandalf
              (fierce)
          fly, you fools!

close on: gandalf lets go his grip and falls away...
following the balrog into the bottomless abyss! frodo cries
out! boromir scoops him up and carries him away.

                     frodo
          no!

                     aragorn
          gandalf!

they rush towards an archway.

                                                      cut to:

