int. mib building - headquarters - early morning

despite the early hour, the headquarters is going full-blast. the large
screen displays the familiar grouping of stars that is the constellation
orion.

jay and kay hurry in -- kay peels off to one of the monitors; jay heads
for zed.

				jay
		doesn't anybody believe in sleep around
		here?

				zed
		the twins keep us on alpha centaurian time
		-- a 37-hour day. give it a few months --
		you'll get used to it. or you'll have a
		psychotic episode.

he points up at the screen with a laser pencil.

				zed
		here's orion; the brightest grouping of
		stars in the northern sky...
			(pointing)
		and here's orion's belt --

he indicates the three stars that make up the belt.

				jay
		that's what the little guy was talking
		about, "to prevent war, the galaxy's on
		orion's belt..."

				zed
		there are no galaxies on orion's belt. the
		belt is just these three stars; galaxies
		are huge, made up of billions of stars.
			(switches off the laser
			pointer)
		you heard wrong.

				jay
		you're attracted to me, aren't you?

jay starts to cross over to another monitor, where kay is sitting alone,
tie loosened, slightly disheveled. on the screen, the word "searching"
blinks, encouraging patience. the image changes to a satellite view of
north america, which quickly zooms in on the southwest.

on screen, the satellite view zooms down to arizona, then a city, then a
neighborhood, then a block, then a back yard. the printout changes to
"subject acquired."

the image comes into sharp focus on one back yard in particular, where we
get a good look at a middle-aged woman.
			subject: elizabeth ann reston
			 present location: residence
			 553 fairfield ave./tempe/az
whoever elizabeth ann reston is, she's lovely. she's setting a picnic
table in her back yard at the moment, unaware that she's being watched by
an eye in the sky -- just as kay is unaware that jay is standing behind
him.

jay notices the monitor with the middle-aged woman on it. he looks at
kay's expression, then back at the monitor.

				jay
		pretty lady...

kay clicks off the picture of her. jay drags a chair and sits down.

				jay (cont'd)
		you were the guy with the flowers in the
		photo, (the night the aliens arrived.)
		(what, you were on your way to a dance or
		something and you got lost? and she never
		got those flowers, did she?]

kay doesn't answer, just stares at the screen. elizabeth looks up, as if
she knows she's being watched, but she's just looking at the sky,
wondering how many stars'll be out tonight.

				jay (cont'd)
		grumpy guy's story comes into focus. she
		ever get married?

				kay
		no.

it's more than kay can bear. he reaches out and flicks a switch. the
monitor goes blank, except for a data screen:
			    subject lost
kay sits back in the chair and eats a potato chip morosely. jay looks at
him: "is this me in thirty years?" a moment goes by. finally:

				jay
		well, it's better to have loved and lost
		than never to have --

				kay
		try it.

				zed (o.s.)
		kay.

jay and kay cross back toward the lad (landed alien display), where each
of the thousand or so aliens who live on earth are represented by a
flickering light.

some lights are starting to go out.

				kay
			(quietly, with dread)
		they're leaving.

				zed
		we've had twelve jumps in the last hour.
		redgick was just the beginning.

				jay
		what do they know that we don't know?

kay looks to his partner, then to the screen. another light flickers out.

				kay
		why do rats desert the ship?
			(to the twins)
		go to lem sat iv. put up a forty-field view
		of manhattan.

on the screen new york city is just a bright spot of light on the eastern
coast of the united states.

				kay (cont'd)
		four hundred.

now there's a view of the earth from space. nothing unusual.

				kay (cont'd)
		four thousand.

now we're looking at earth from far, far away -- and from here we can see
something that doesn't belong in this picture:

a battle cruiser far off to one side of the earth. the words "level four"
flash in red letters on one side of the map.

				kay (cont'd)
		that's an arquillian battle cruiser.

				jay
		and we've got a dead arquillian prince.

a communication starts coming over the speakers -- a sound like a cat and
mouse caught in a blender.

				kay
		message coming in.

the communication continues.

				kay (cont'd)
		speak of the devil.

the communication continues.

				jay
		they sound pissed.

				zed
			(to the twins)
		translate that and step on it!
			(to kay)
		meanwhile get down to rosenberg's store and
		see what you can turn up.

kay and jay walk away.

				zed (cont'd)
		and kay -- take a lot of fire power.

in the equipment locker kay pulls out the enormous, many-barreled hand
gun. a small, clear, canister sprouts from underneath it, malicious
swirling gases visible through its walls.

				jay
		i like that.

				kay
		series four de-atomizer.

kay pulls out another weapon, the tiniest gun we've ever seen.

				kay (cont'd)
		here. we call this the "noisy cricket."

				jay
		you get a series four de-atomizer and i get
		a "noisy cricket?!"
			(looks at the gun)
		i'm afraid i'm going to break it.

jay follows kay out, glancing back to see the huge gun turrets on the
arquillian battle cruiser hum and whir as they swing around into position,
pointed down at the unwitting planet below.

								cut to:

