int. mib building - headquarters - day

-- slide open on men in black headquarters.

				kay
		as of this moment, they don't mean much.

it's unlike anything we've ever seen -- huge, multileveled, of sixties
design, polished steel and glass. the workplaces are sleek and
uncluttered, manned by both humans and aliens. most of the aliens stay in
the background, like the upside-down guy who walks on the ceiling,
shuffling papers.

kay and edwards step off the elevator and onto a platform that looks out
over the whole place.

kay leads him down into the complex. first, they walk past a sort of
passport control center, where a human bureaucrat at a desk is checking
the documents of a line of aliens who've just arrived. there are a dozen
bizarre life forms in that line, chatting in half a dozen different alien
tongues.

edwards slows as they pass, listening to the passport control officer as
he addresses an arquillian, a large, humanoid visitor.

				passport officer
		purpose of trip?

				arquillian
		diplomatic mission.

				passport officer
		duration of stay?

				arquillian
		lunch.

				passport officer
		carrying any fruits or vegetables?

edwards just stares, fascinated, but kay grabs him by the arm and hurries
him along.

				kay
		let's go. he's a little...grouchy.

kay moves him into the central hall.

				kay
		a couple of hours wait after a 17-light-year
		flight would get on anybody's nerves.

				edwards
		what branch of the government do we report
		to?

				kay
		none. they started asking too many questions.

				edwards
		so who pays for all this?

				kay
		oh, we hold a few patents on gadgets we
		confiscated from our out-of-state visitors.
		velcro. microwave ovens. liposuction.

at a storage cage, kay turns a key in the lock of a caged-in area and
throws the door open. inside, there are piles of sophisticated-looking
devices stacked on shelves and tabletops.

				kay
			(picking something up)
		here. a new recording device to replace
		cd's.  so now i gotta buy the white album
		again?
			(something else)
		this is amusing. universal translator.

he holds up a cylindrical metal tube and a small wire clip that looks like
a lapel microphone.

				kay (cont'd)
		we're not supposed to have it. i'll tell
		you why.  human thought is so primitive
		it's considered an infectious disease.
		makes you proud, doesn't it?

edwards picks up a small yellow ball from one of the shelves.

				edwards
		what's this?

				kay (cont'd)
		don't touch that!

the ball zings out of edwards' hands -- it flies out into the main complex
-- hits the ceiling and ricochets around the room, faster than the eye can
follow --

various shots of humans and aliens ducking, dodging, and jumping out of
its way.

on kay as he calmly, a little wearily, slips an odd-looking metal glove
over his right hand...

he raises his hand and the yellow ball zings into it -- kay catches the
ball, calmly.

				kay (cont'd)
		caused the '77 new york blackout. practical
		joke by the great attractor. he thought it
		was funny as hell.

they leave the room.

				edwards
		sorry!

on the main floor, they walk briskly across the room, reaching a giant
screen on the far wall.

				kay
		observation, the heart of our little
		endeavor.

the screen displays a map of the world on which thousands of tiny lights
blink in all parts of the globe, log lines of data flashing next to them.

				kay (cont'd)
		this map shows the location of every
		registered alien on earth at any given
		time. some of them we keep under constant
		surveillance.

he hits a button on the console and the map is replaced by hundreds of
boxes, each with smaller video images.

				kay (cont'd)
		everyone on these screens is an alien. in
		public -- normal. in private -- you'll get
		the idea.

on the screens, we see live images of aliens. aliens who look alien are in
spots where they can't be seen.  aliens who look human are functioning
right out in public -- including sam donaldson. michael jackson. and tony
robbins.

				kay (cont'd)
		meet the twins.

kay gestures to two small, bony creatures with eight arms each and a
single eye growing out of a central stalk in their heads. they turn around
and wave two or three arms each.

				edwards
		i gotta be honest about something.

				kay
		it makes no sense?

				edwards
		it makes perfect sense. when i was a third
		grader in philadelphia, they told me i was
		crazy 'cause i swore that our teacher was
		from, like, venus or something.

				kay
		mrs. edelson.

edwards, stunned, looks at kay as 4-eyes boots her onto the screen: mean
face, cat glasses. bony fingers. extremely well-hidden tail.

				kay
		jupiter, actually. well, one of the moons.

with their remaining arms, they punch button after button on the enormous
console. zed, who was standing up close to the screen, walks over to
edwards, sizing him up.

				zed
		what's your jacket size, edwards?

				edwards
		uh -- forty regular.

				zed
		then let's put it on.

				edwards
		put what on?

				zed
		the last suit you'll ever wear.

								cut to:

