ext. clay bank - night 

schaefer is pounding a peeled root between two stones. he pauses to 
drool saliva into the pulpy mass. he scrapes the milky substance onto a 
banana leaf, mixing it with a sticky sap, holding it over the coals 
until the mixture steams.

schaefer coats the arrow tips with the sticky poison, holding them over 
the coals until the sap bubbles and smokes. he spins the arrows in his 
hands, blowing on the tips to cool and harden the mixture.

using the tip of his machete, he pries open the casing of one of the 
40mm grenades, discarding the warhead. he dumps the propellant powder 
from the shell onto a leaf, mixing that with a mound of magnesium 
shavings.

he opens the narrow, tight roll of gauze taken from the first aid kit 
of the machete handle, fluffing it into a large, loose bundle, the size 
of a baseball. he pours the powder-mixture into the gauze, mixing it 
into the fabric.

he transfers the ball of explosive ladened gauze to a pliable dry leaf, 
closing it into a bundle, binding it at the top with a long strand of 
jungle-grass.

he twists the remaining gauze around a match, leaving the head exposed, 
forming a self-striking fuse.

he coats the fuse with sap and then thickly covers it with more powder 
from the 40mm grenade. he pokes the fuse down into the leaf. taking a 
long strand of jungle grass he makes a large loop, tying it onto the 
grenade, slipping the loop and grenade over his head.

finally, using several sections of bamboo of differing diameters, he 
fashions a crude, anti-personnel spear-bomb, a bang-stick like weapon, 
using the sharpened tongue from his belt buckle for a firing pin and a 
40mm grenade from his belt pouch as an explosive charge.


