ext. encampment - day (pre-dawn) 

a patchy ground fog covers the area. anna, in her foxhole, awakens, 
listening to the rising sounds of the jungle. monkeys begin to forage, 
their noisy chattering and screeching filling the air.

a bird flutters back to its nest; a chameleon emerges onto a leaf, 
directly above anna's head.

anna carefully extends her arm, allowing the lizard to crawl onto her, 
watching, fascinated as it changes colors. she carefully places the 
chameleon back on the leaf, which changes color again, becoming nearly 
invisible.

near the empty poncho, schaefer, billy and ramirez are examining the 
ground and the trip wire to the flare. billy stands, turns to schaefer.

billy
boar set off the trip flare, major. no other tracks.

schaefer kneels and examines the thin, well hidden wire. he stands, 
looking around the camp.

ramirez
how could anyone get through this, carry blain out, right under our 
noses without leavin' a trace?

schaefer
he knows our defenses. 

ramirez
why didn't he try to kill one of us last night?

schaefer looks at him.

schaefer
he came back for the body.
(pause)
he's killing us, one at a time... 

schaefer turns and looks at billy, asking with his eyes for a viable 
explanation.

billy
like a hunter.

schaefer stares at him, the words sinking in. he looks up, 
reconstructing in his mind the possible events of last night, his eyes 
following the tree line, tracing the path of the intruder as he might 
have traveled through the trees and down to the ground.

he looks up at billy.

schaefer
he uses the trees.

billy and ramirez stare up at the trees, a wave of fear passing through 
them... from the trees. schaefer turns, moving to where dillon is 
guarding anna, sitting on the ground. reaching down, schaefer pulls her 
firmly to her feet, looking at her intensely.

schaefer
yesterday. what did you see?

she stares back at him.

dillon
you're wastin' your time.

schaefer
no more games.

she looks at him a long moment, and then answers in english.

anna
i don't know what it was. it... 

dillon does a double take. schaefer continues to look at anna. he 
wasn't surprised: he knew it yesterday. 

schaefer
go on.

anna
it changes colors, like the chameleon. it uses the jungle... 

dillon
(derisively)
shit, you trying to tell me blain and hawkins were killed by a fucking 
lizard? don't listen to her. its's a psych-job. two, maybe three of 
them, that's all. we keep our cool, out-think them 'til we're across 
the border...

ignoring him, schaefer takes her hands, drawing his commando knife, 
looking squarely into her eyes.

schaefer
what's you name?

she looks back into his eyes.

anna
anna.

schaefer
anna. he's hunting us. you know that?

she nods. with a sudden movement he slices through her bonds.

dillon
what the hell do you think you're doing?

schaefer
we're going to need everyone.

dillon
what are you talking about? we'll be out of here in ten minutes.

schaefer
we're not going.

dillon
that rendezvous is ten maybe twelve miles, at most! we're almost home. 
but the chopper won't wait.

schaefer turns to face him.

schaefer
dillon... this thing doesn't care who we are, who she is. we make a 
stand or there won't be anyone left to make that chopper.

dillon stares back, not wanting to hear what he already knows to be 
true.

anna touches schaefer's arm.

anna
there is something else. when the big man was killed, you must have 
wounded it.
(pause)
it's blood was on the leaves.

she touches her pant leg, the stain is faded but still there. schaefer 
turns to dillon.

schaefer
if it bleeds, we can kill it.


