82 int. dining saloon

close on ruth.

                                   ruth

tell us of the accommodations in steerage, mr. dawson. i hear they're quite
good on this ship.

wider: the table. jack is seated opposite rose, who is flanked by cal and
thomas andrews. also at the table are molly brown, ismay, colonel gracie,
the countess, guggenheim, madame aubert, and the astors.

                                   jack

the best i've seen, m'am. hardly any rats.

rose motions surreptitiously for jack to take his napkin off his plate.

                                    cal

mr. dawson is joining us from third class. he was of some assistance to my
fiancee last night.

                        (to jack, as if to a child)

this is foie gras. it's goose liver.

we see whispers exchanged. jack becomesthe subject of furtive glances. now
they're all feeling terribly liberal and dangerous.

                                guggenheim

                          (low to madame aubert)

what is hockly hoping to prove, bringing this... bohemian... up here?

                                  waiter

                                 (to jack)

how do you take your caviar, sir?

                                    cal

                            (answering for him)

just a soupcon of lemon...

                            (to jack, smiling)

...it improves the flavor with champagne.

                                   jack

                              (to the waiter)

no caviar for me, thanks.

                                 (to cal)

never did like it much.

he looks at rose, pokerfaced, and she smiles.

                                   ruth

and where exactly do you live, mr. dawson?

                                   jack

well, right now my address is the rms titanic. after that, i'm on god's
good humor.

salad is served. jack reaches for the fish fork. rose gives him a look and
picks up the salad fork, prompting him with her eyes. he changes forks.

                                   ruth

you find that sort of rootless existence appealing, do you?

                                   jack

well... it's a big world, and i want to see it all before i go. my father
was always talkin' about goin' to see the ocean. he died in the town he was
born in, and never did see it. you can't wait around, because you never
know what hand you're going to get dealt next. see, my folks died in a fire
when i was fifteen, and i've been on the road since. somethin' like that
teaches you to take life as it comes at you. to make each day count.

molly brown raises her glass in a salute.

                                   molly

well said, jack.

                              colonel gracie

                            (raising his glass)

here, here.

rose raises her glass, looking at jack.

                                   rose

to making it count.

ruth, annoyed that jack has scored a point, presses him further.

                                   ruth

how is it you have the means to travel, mr. dawson?

                                   jack

i work my way from place to place. tramp steamers and such. i won my ticket
on titanic here in a lucky hand at poker.

                           (he glances at rose)

a very lucky hand.

                                  gracie

all life is a game of luck.

                                    cal

a real man makes his own luck, archie.

rose notices that thomas andrews, sitting next to her, is writing in his
notebook, completely ignoring the conversation.

                                   rose

mr. andrews, what are you doing? i see you everywhere writing in this
little book.

                           (grabs it and reads)

increase number of screws in hat hooks from 2 to 3. you build the biggest
ship in the world and this preoccupies you?!

andrews smiles sheepishly.

                                   ismay

he knows every rivet in her, don't you thomas?

                                  andrews

all three million of them.

                                   ismay

his blood and soul are in the ship. she may be mine on paper, but in the
eyes of god she belongs to thomas andrews.

                                   rose

your ship is a wonder, mr. andrews. truly.

                                  andrews

thankyou, rose.

we see that andrews has come under rose's spell.

83 time transition: dessert has been served and a waiter arrives with
cigars in a humidor on a wheeled cart. the men start clipping ends and
lighting.

                                   rose

                              (low, to jack)

nest it'll be brandies in the smoking room.

                                  gracie

                                 (rising)

well, join me for a brandy, gentlemen?

                                   rose

                                   (low)

now they retreat into a cloud of smoke and congratulate each other on being
masters of the universe.

                                  gracie

joining us, dawson? you don't want to stay out here with the women, do you?

actually he does, but...

                                   jack

no thanks. i'm heading back.

                                    cal

probably best. it'll be all business and politics, that sort of thing.
wouldn't interest you. good of you to come.

cal and te other gentlemen exit.

                                   rose

jack, must you go?

                                   jack

time for my coach to turn back into a pumpkin.

he leans over to take her hand.

insert: we see him slip a tiny folded not into her palm.

ruth, scowling, watches him walk away across the enormous room. rose
surreptitiously opens the note below table level. it reads: "make it count.
meet me at the clock".

                                                                   cut to:

