ext.  balcony on frankenstein tower - on monica

gazing out onto the city, as she senses casanova slinking up behind 
her.

					monica
		i'm chilly.

she turns, elegantly avoiding him, and moving back inside.

back to the barn/lab - continuous

spleen holds up furious' favorite sunglasses.

					spleen
		look!  your favorite sunglasses!
				(snaps them in two)

					bowler
		your roy rogers coffee mug!
			(hurls it against the wall)

					shoveler
		your spiderman pez dispenser!
			    (breaks the head off it)

					furious
		okay, you win.  i'm pissed off. i'm seriously 
		peeved.

the others groan with frustration.

back at the frankenstein tower - continuous

monica moves nervously around the room as casanova sprawls languorously 
on the bed, toying with his gold chain.

					casanova
		come here.

					monica
		i'm not that kind of girl.

					casanova
		then why are you here?

					monica
		curiosity.

					casanova
				   (with a smile)
		remember the cat.

suddenly, he hears high heels in the hall.  a key is put in the lock--
casanova leaps off the bed, grabs monica and roughly shoves her into 
the closet.  he leaps back onto the bed, just as the door opens, and 
anabel, dressed in a lab coat (and wearing high heels) enters.  
casanova is completely relaxed, nonchalant.

					anabel
		what are you doing all alone in the dark?

					casanova
		fantasizing... about you.

she crosses the room to the wolf sculpture.

					casanova
		i thought you were done?

					anabel
		one last tweak.

she opens a secret panel on its back, revealng a flashing high tech 
interior... and monica, watching from the closet, realizes that she has 
found the psychostridulator.

back to the barn/lab - continuous - close on

a boom box... a cd jacket tells us that "kenny g." is playing...

					raja
		if this doesn't do it, nothing will!

on furious, a pair of headphones on his head.  the music is so loud 
that we can hear it even though it's being played only through the 
headphones.

on the others, gathered around him, waiting to see if this will work.  
and then furious begins to respond... as his face turns into a 
contorted grimace.

					bowler
		it's working!

furious groans and writhes... the others are thrilled; they've done it!

					furious
		this music is just so beautiful!

he starts to weep.  the others give a collective groan of defeat.

back at the frankenstein tower - cohtinuous

as anabel works on the psychostridulator, monica looks at a clock... 
which reads almost eleven.  time is running out.

back to the barn/lab - close on shoveler's wristwatch

which also reads eleven.

0n shoveler and raja -

					shoveler
		it's time.

					raja
		with or without him, we gotta go!

back to the frankenstein tower -

as anabel closes up the wolf... and starts to leave.

					anabel
		our guests are waiting.

					casanova
		i'll be down in a jiffy.

she goes out.  casanova listens as the sound of high heels fades away, 
then he goes to the closet and lets monica out.

					monica
		i'd better go.

					casanova
		you're a spy.

					monica
				    (offguard)
		what?

					casanova
		i saw him walk you home.

					monica
		who?

					casanova
		roy.

she makes a sudden try for the door, but he blocks her way, a cold look 
in his eye that makes her step back in fear.

					casanova
		don't be afraid... i never hit a lady...

he lets the gold chain drop loose in his hand, then starts coming for 
her, a sadistic grin on his face.  this is the real casanova.

monica pulls back, then reaches into her purse and takes out a canned 
tornado, which she holds out threateningly.

					monica
		stay away!

					casanova
		or you'll what?  can me?

he laughs dementedly as monica pops open the can and a swirling funnel 
of air shoots out of it and engulfs casanova, throwing him across the 
room... monica grabs the handset of a cordless phone and runs out the 
door.

on casanova, pulling himself together.

					casanova
		that bitch!

