int. halford's night

all the couples are now gathered for the key selection
process, men on one side of the room, women on the other. the
storm can be heard outside.

			dot 
	well, what shall the order be,
	alphabetical? in order of
	appearance?

			pierce sawyer 
	golf handicap! lowest handicap does
	the honors.

nervous laughter.

			dot 
	golf handicap? ladies, isn't it up
	to you?

			maria conrad 
	oh i'll go first, damn it. let's
	just line up and get it over with.

maria chooses stephen earle. hands the keys to him. a
smattering of applause as she takes his arm and they leave.

			marie earle 
	good luck!

neil watches his mother's exit.

						jump cut to:

a few more couplings.

						jump cut to:

helen worthington approaches the bowl. helen worthington has
the size and shape of a sumo wrestler.

there is a nervous shifting of weight on the male side of the
room.

helen delicately reaches into the bowl. her hands emerge with
a key chain.

george clair steps forward, obviously depressed, as a
collective sigh of relief goes up from behind him. ben looks
on, momentarily triumphant.

elena smiles to herself.

						jump cut to:

the gadds choose each other.

			mrs. gadd 
	oh, my own husband. isn't that
	against the rules?

			dot 
	try again?

			mrs. gadd 
		(relieved)
	oh, i think not.

mr. gadd smiles as they leave, obviously happy to go.

finally, only mark boland, neil conrad, janey and jim
williams, rob and dot halford, sari steele, benjamin and
elena.

			dot 
	getting down to the wire!

elena steps forward. benjamin is obviously agitated.

close on janey's hands selecting -- away from ben's equine
key ring.

she lifts up another key ring -- neil conrad, the teenager.

she hands the self-important-looking neil his keys and they
turn to go.

jim williams smiles mysteriously to himself.

ben suddenly lurches forward, semi-drunkenly, trying to
separate neil from janey.

			the group
		(ad lib)
	hey hey ben, hang on there a sec.

he backs off, ashamed, and, taking a step backwards, trips
over the coffee table.

mark boland helps lift him up.

			ben 
	sorry... maybe i should... the
	bathroom?

			dot
	right down the hall, ben.

			ben
		(muttering)
	sorry, i'm sorry. uh, i'll be back.

dot follows mark boland down the hall behind ben.

suddenly, it's just elena and jim williams, and sari steele
and rob halford.

			rob halford
		(taking sari's arm)
	actually, we didn't put our keys in
	at all. but you won't spread it
	around? it's my party, and dot
	isn't... hey, we're just going to
	slip upstairs for a while. you
	folks like a cup of coffee or
	something before we go?

elena and jim look at each other.

			elena 
	rob, we'll fix it for ourselves.
	you two go and get acquainted.
	we'll let ourselves out the front
	door.

jim and elena stand there alone.

			jim 
	well, i have to say i don't have
	much faith that my car keys are
	still in that bowl. doesn't seem
	entirely safe, leaving your car
	keys around?

			elena 
	let me.

she takes the bowl and dips her hand in. two sets are left.
one, her own, she avoids. she takes out jim's keys and walks
across the room, handing them to him.

			jim 
	thanks, but -- oh, i don't think
	so. it's been kind of a
	discouraging evening.

			elena 
	you couldn't have hoped for much
	better when you came up the walk.

			jim 
	somehow it was different in my
	imagination when i thought about
	it. actually, i didn't think about
	it at all, really.

they sit down on the sofa.

			jim 
	you want coffee or something?

			elena 
	well, maybe they have one of those
	filter jobs in the kitchen --

			jim 
	look, elena, the fact that we're
	neighbors... you know, close
	friends, well it sort of makes this
	a little strange, don't you think?

			elena 
	my husband is probably passed out
	in the bathroom, or at least he
	wishes he were. i've been married
	to him for 17 years and i don't
	have any intention of going in
	there to get him... so what i'm
	proposing is that since your wife
	has gone off with a boy, and since
	you are standing here alone, i'm
	proposing that you and i do what
	makes sense. stay warm. pass some
	time. that's all.

they both look at their hands.

			elena 
	now don't make me feel as if i'm
	being too forward, ok? if you don't
	--

			jim 
	what the hey. let's go for a drive.

			elena 
	okay. shall we clean up around here
	first? do you think it's all right--

			jim 
	nah, that wasn't in the contract.

but they still walk around turning off lights.

in the hallway, elena looks a bit mournfully at the light
seeping from underneath the bathroom door. she hears the
sound of running water from inside.

then she goes into a sideroom and joins jim. they pick up
their coats.

