ext.  trench - darkness

two men move along a deep trench, the siege works of 17th
century siege warfare.  one of the men is raoul, carrying a
musket; in his new uniform he looks out of place among the
dirty, battle weary men they pass.  he is following the staff
officer who is no older than himself, but whose eyes are
already dead, while raoul's are wide and wild.

the trench is deep as a grave; by crouching, both men keep
their heads below the surrounding ground.  thick smoke rolls
over their heads; we can't tell if it is day or night.  from
all around come sounds of battle, with the sporadic fire of
muskets and the rumble of cannons; officers shout orders in
the distance; wounded men nearby whimper for water and the
officer leads raoul by them as if they did not exist.

the young staff officer stops at a bend in the trench.

                     staff officer
          here.

without another word he goes back the way he came.  raoul
grips his musket and looks around him; he finds himself among
several dozen stark eyed men manning the forward curve of the
trench.  he has little time to wonder what will happen next.
a horn trumpets close by, and with a shout, the french
soldiers clamber out of their breastworks.

for an instant, raoul hesitates in pure terror, then joins
the charge with a shout of his own --

                     raoul
          mi-cheeelllll!! --

on the stone wall looming above the french soldiers, orange
blossoms of fire -- the muzzle flash of primitive cannons --
penetrate the smoke, and the ground at raoul's feet explodes,
hurling him backwards.  he covered barely a few feet, and
falls almost exactly where he started.

dead.

                                                  cut to:

close - the door of athos' rooms - day

a gloved hand raps on the door.  athos opens it to a military
messenger, who shoves at him a single sheet of paper, rolled
and tied with ribbon.

