ext.  paris street - night

through the narrow streets of the old city gallops a dashing
figure, his cloak flying behind him and catching the
moonlight, his horse's hooves clattering along the
cobblestones as he dodges the beggars living in the filthy
shadows.  he is a magnetic sight, riding the horse as easily
as if they were racing across an open field and not through a
cluttered street, and guiding the stallion as if its grace
and power came not from the animal but from the rider.
sitting lightly in the saddle is

d'artagnan

famous musketeer, captain of the king's royal bodyguard.  he
is still handsome at mid-life, still erect, unambiguous in
his courage and his loyalty.

he rides past a knot of angry beggars, moving through the
streets breaking windows and scavenging for food.  when they
see d'artagnan, some throw rocks at him.  they sail by
d'artagnan's head; he ducks them with the fluid grace of a
boxer dodging punches, and keeps on riding.

outside the cathedral

d'artagnan rides into the courtyard of a grand old residence
beside notre dame cathedral.  priests are dispensing food to
beggars gathered in the courtyard.  as d'artagnan reins his
horse to a stop the wretched people stare with contempt at
the royal symbols on his uniform.  but d'artagnan is not a
man anyone would be quick to confront; as he dismounts and
moves toward the doorways the people part for him.

he pauses as he sees, parked to one side of the old
residence, a big rickety carriage.  d'artagnan smiles.

                     d'artagnan
          porthos too!

d'artagnan hears drunken feminine giggles echoing down the
staircase of the tower above him.

