int.  dining room - night

                     athos
          phillippe -- he's very bright, he's
          perceptive, but he is in such
          turmoil --

                     aramis
          you grow fond of him.  that's good.

                     athos
          don't play god with me, aramis i --

athos interrupts himself as he glimpses the naked porthos
moving across the courtyard toward the barn.

                     aramis
          go on.

                     athos
          but -- what is porthos doing?

                     aramis
          going into the barn naked -- or so
          it appears.

we intercut porthos in the barn with aramis and athos in the
house...

in the barn

porthos, alone within the barn, finds a thick plow rope and
fashions a noose.

in the house

                     aramis
          now.  you were saying?

                     athos
          but -- what is he doing?

                     aramis
          about to hang himself, i should
          think.

in the barn

porthos throws one end of the rope over the central beam of
the barn, and ties the other end off.  he shoves a milking
stool up below the noose, climbs onto it, and fits the noose
around his neck.  note: when we see him in full view it is
only from behind -- and this angle is a sight to behold.

in the house

aramis' detachment only aggravates athos' excitement.

                     athos
          hang himself?!

                     aramis
          he's threatened to do it, it's been
          building up in him for months.

                     athos
          we must stop him!

                     aramis
          come now, athos, if porthos is
          determined to end his life, then he
          will certainly manage to find the
          opportunity.

                     athos
          but -- but --

athos jumps up and makes for the door -- but aramis' hooded
helpers, at a signal from aramis, bar his way.

in the barn

porthos, grave with drama, utters his last words...

                     porthos
          a'dieu, cruel life!  farewell to
          useless porthos!

he steps off the stool.

his great weight drops.  the rope snaps taught.  the beam it
is tied to snaps like a twig -- right in the place where it
has been sawn nearly in half already.

porthos falls unencumbered and slams butt first into the
floorboards of the barn, cracking them.

aramis and athos

can hear the crack from where they're sitting.

                     aramis
          i sawed the main beam in half.

in the barn

the chain reaction has just begun.  the broken floorboards
buckle, and the barn's walls, deprived of their central
support, fall in on each other.

in the front room

athos and aramis watch wide-eyed as the whole barn completely
collapses around the unfortunate porthos.  athos gives aramis
a look.

                     aramis
          i'm a genius -- not an engineer!

they jump up and run out.  the commotion draws others too --
especially the three wenches porthos had been trying to bed.

the collapsed barn

it's a tangle of debris -- and from the size and weight of
the pile, it looks as if no one could live through the
collapse.  for a moment the whole pile lies silent; then
suddenly it bursts apart and porthos emerges, exploding with
anger.

                     porthos
          aramis!!  you did this, didn't you!
          you knew i would try hanging myself,
          and you sawed the beam!  admit it!
          admit it, by god!!  admit it!!!

porthos' eyes are bulging; he's terrifying in his fury.  and
he holds one of the broken barn's timbers like a giant club,
ready to bash in aramis' brains.  aramis is totally casual.

                     aramis
          well of course i knew it, porthos.

porthos stands there, blinking.

                     aramis
          you've been moping for months.  now
          that you've gotten the idea of
          killing yourself out of the way, you
          can stop boring me and start being
          useful to me.  now get some rest.

                     porthos
          well... well... okay.

porthos starts back toward the house.  then one of the
serving girls, heading back inside, sees in one of the upper
windows -- the face in the iron mask.  she screams --

                     wench
          aaaaaahhhhhhh!

phillippe shies back from the window now, but it's too late,
everyone has seen him.  aramis, with cold intellectual
curiosity, quietly observes the women's reaction, even as his
hooded helpers scurry from the shadows to calm the frightened
locals.

                     athos
          poor phillippe!

                     aramis
          the mask is terrifying... especially
          when unexpected.  do you notice?

                     athos
          all i noticed was that phillippe
          feels even more like an animal.

athos hurries in; aramis looks at porthos.

                     aramis
          see, porthos -- secrets are hard to
          keep.  we don't have much time.

