int. clementine's apartment - a few minutes later

joel stands in the living room, somewhat nervously.  he tries
to calm himself by focusing on the surroundings.  he looks at
the books on her shelves.  clementine is in the kitchen.  we
see her as she passes by the doorway several times, preparing
drinks and chatting.

		clementine
	thanks.  i like it, too.  been here about
	four years.  it's really cheap.  my
	downstairs neighbor is old so she's
	quiet, which is great.  and the
	landlord's sweet, which is bizarre, but
	great, and i have a little porch in the
	back, which is great, because i can read
	there, and listen to my crickets and...

clementine is in the living room now with two gin and tonics.

		clementine (cont'd)
	two blue ruins...

joel is looking at a framed black and white photograph of
crows flying.

		clementine (cont'd)
	you like that?

		joel
	very much.

		clementine
	this... someone gave that to me, just
	like, recently.  i like it, too.  i like
	crows.  i think i used to be a crow.

she caws and hands joel a drink.

		joel
	thanks.  that was good, that crow sound.

		clementine
	do you believe in that stuff?
	reincarnation?

		joel
	i don't know.

		clementine
	me neither.  oh, there's an inscription
	on the back.
		(takes it off the wall, reads:)
	the way a crow/shook down on me/the dust
	of snow/from a hemlock tree/has given my
	heart/a change of mood/and saved some
	part/of a day i rued.

		joel
	frost?

		clementine
		(impressed)
	yeah.  i'm not, like, a robert frost
	lover by any stretch.  his stuff seems
	strictly grade school to me.  but this
	made me cry for some reason.  maybe
	because it is grade school.  y'know?

		joel
	it's pretty.

		clementine
	i miss grade school.  i don't know why
	i'm calling it grade school all of a
	sudden.  when i went we called it
	elementary school.  but i like grade
	school better.  sounds like something
	someone from the forties would call it.
	i'd like to be from then.  everyone wore
	hats.  anyway, cheers!

		joel
	cheers.

they click glasses.  clementine giggles and takes a big gulp
of her drink.  joel sips.  she plops down on the couch and
pulls her boots off.

		clementine
	god, that feels so fucking good.  take
	yours off.

		joel
	i'm fine.

		clementine
	yeah?  well, have a seat, anyway.

joel sits in a chair across the room.  clementine finishes
her drink.

		clementine (cont'd)
	ready for another?

		joel
	no, i'm okay for now.

she heads toward the kitchen with her glass.

		clementine
	well, i'm ready.  put some music on.

joel crosses to the cd's and studies them.

		joel
	what do you want to hear?

		clementine (o.s.)
	you pick it.

		joel
	you just say.  i'm not really --

		clementine (o.s.)
	i don't know!  i can't see them from
	here, joel!  just pick something good.

joel studies the unfamiliar cd's.  he picks up bang on a can
performing brian eno's music for airports to look at.
clementine reenters with her drink.

		clementine (cont'd)
	oh, excellent choice.

she grabs it and sticks it in the cd player.  the music is
dreamy and haunting and slow.  clementine falls back onto the
couch, closes her eyes and sips her drink.

		clementine (cont'd)
	mmmmmmm.  way to go, joel.  you pick
	good.

joel sits down in his chair and drinks.  there's a silence,
which seems fine to clementine but makes joel anxious.

		joel
	well, i should probably get going.

		clementine
	no, stay.  just for a little while.
		(opens her eyes, brightly)
	refill?

		joel
	no.  i --

		clementine
	i know a man who needs a refill.

she grabs joel's drink from his hand, takes it into the
kitchen.

		clementine (cont'd) (o.s.) (cont'd)
	god bless alcohol, is what i say.  where
	would i be without it.  oh, jesus, mary,
	and joseph, maybe i don't want to think
	about that.

she giggles.  joel looks around the room again.  there are
several potatoes dressed as women in beautiful handmade
costumes: a nurse potato, a stripper potato, a schoolteacher
potato, a housewife potato.  clementine returns with joel's
drink and a refill for herself.

		joel
	thanks.

		clementine
	drink up, young man.  it'll make the
	whole seduction part less repugnant.

joel looks a little alarmed.

		clementine (cont'd)
	i'm just kidding.  c'mon.

she sits back on the couch, closes her eyes.  joel watches
her, looks at her breasts.  she opens her eyes, smiles
drunkenly at him.

		clementine (cont'd)
	y'know, i'm sort of psychic.

		joel
	yeah?

		clementine
	well, i go to a psychic and she's always
	telling me i'm psychic.  she should know.
	do you believe in that stuff?

		joel
	i don't know.

		clementine
	me neither.  but sometimes i have
	premonitions, so, i don't know.  maybe
	that's just coincidence.  right?  y'know,
	you think something and then it happens,
	or you think a word and then someone says
	it?  y'know?

		joel
	yeah, i don't know.  it's hard to know.

		clementine
	exactly.  exactly!  that's exactly my
	feeling about it.  it's hard to know.
	like, okay, but how many times do i think
	something and it doesn't happen?  that's
	what you're saying, right?  you forget
	about those times.  right?

		joel
	yeah, i guess.

		clementine
		(dreamy beat)
	but i think i am.  i like to think i am.

		clementine (cont'd)
	it's helpful to think there's some order
	to things.  you're kind of closed
	mouthed, aren't you?

		joel
	sorry.  my life isn't that interesting.
	i go to work.  i go home.  i don't know
	what to say.

		clementine
	oh.
		(considers this)
	does that make you sad?  or anxious?  i'm
	always anxious thinking i'm not living my
	life to the fullest, y'know?  taking
	advantage of every possibility?  just
	making sure that i'm not wasting one
	second of the little time i have.

		joel
	i think about that.

she looks at him really hard for a long moment.  joel tries
to hold her gaze, but can't.  he looks down at his drink.
clementine starts to cry again.

		clementine
	you're really nice.  i'm sorry i yelled
	at you before about it.  god, i'm an
	idiot.

		joel
	i do have a tendency to use that word too
	much.

		clementine
	i like you.  that's the thing about my
	psychic thing.  i think that's my
	greatest psychic power, that i get a
	sense about people.  my problem is i
	never trust it.  but i get it.  and with
	you i get that you're a really good guy.

		joel
	thanks.

		clementine
	and, anyway, you sell yourself short.  i
	can tell.  there's a lot of stuff going
	on in your brain.  i can tell.  my
	goal... can i tell you my goal?

		joel
	yeah.

		clementine
		(ala paul simon)
	what's the goal, joel?
		(laughs)
	my goal, joel, is to just let it flow
	through me?  do you know what i mean?
	it's like, there's all these emotions and
	ideas and they come quick and they change
	and they leave and they come back in a
	different form and i think we're all
	taught we should be consistent.  y'know?
	you love someone -- that's it.  forever.
	you choose to do something with your life
	-- that's it, that's what you do.  it's a
	sign of maturity to stick with that and
	see things through.  and my feeling is
	that's how you die, because you stop
	listening to what is true, and what is
	true is constantly changing.  you know?

		joel
	yeah.  i think so.  it's hard to --

		clementine
	like i wanted to talk to you.  i didn't
	need any more reason to do it.  who knows
	what bigger cosmic reason might exist?

		joel
	yeah.

		clementine
	you're very nice.  god, i have to stop
	saying that.  you're nervous around me,
	huh?

		joel
	no.

		clementine
	i'm nervous.  you don't need to be
	nervous around me, though.  i like you.
	do you think i'm repulsively fat?

		joel
	no, not at all.

		clementine
	i don't either.  i used to.  but i'm
	through with that.  y'know, if i don't
	love my body, then i'm just lost.  you
	know?

		clementine (cont'd)
	with all the wrinkles and scars and the
	general falling apart that's coming
	'round the bend.
		(beat)
	so, i've been seeing this guy...

joel looks slightly crestfallen.

		clementine (cont'd)
		(off his reaction)
	well, for the last week, anyway!  he's
	kind of a kid.  kind of a goofball, but
	he's really stuck on me, which is
	flattering.  who wouldn't like that?  and
	he's, like, a dope, but he says these
	smart and moving things sometimes, out of
	nowhere, that just break my heart.  he's
	the one who gave me that crow photograph.

		joel
	oh, yeah.

		clementine
	that made me cry.  but, anyway, we went
	up to boston, because i had this urge to
	lie on my back on the charles river.  it
	gets frozen this time of year.

		joel
	that's scary sounding.

		clementine
	exactly!  i used to do it in college and
	i had this urge to go do it again, so i
	got patrick and we drove all night to get
	there and he was sweet and said nice
	things to me, but i was really
	disappointment to be there with him.
	y'know?  and that's where psychic stuff
	comes in.  like, it just isn't right with
	him.  y'know?

		joel
	i think so.

		clementine
	i don't believe in that soulmate crap
	anymore, but... he says so many great
	things.  we like the same writers.  this
	writer stephen dixon he turned me on to.
	and he's cute.  it's fucked up.  joel,
	you should come up to the charles with me
	sometime.

		joel
	okay.

		clementine
	yeah?  oh, great!

she sits closer to him.

		clementine (cont'd)
	i'll pack a picnic -- a night picnic --
	night picnics are different -- and --

		joel
		(shy)
	sounds good.  but right now i should go.

		clementine
		(pause)
	you should stay.

		joel
	i have to get up early in the morning
	tomorrow, so...

		clementine
		(beat)
	okay.

joel puts on his overcoat.  clementine heads to the phone
table, pulls out a notepad.

		clementine (cont'd)
	i would like you to call me.  would you
	do that?  i would like that.

		joel
	yes.

she scribbles her phone number, hands it to him.  he puts it
in his pocket.  he stands there uncomfortably for a moment,
then forces himself to speak.

		joel (cont'd)
	i don't think your personality comes out
	of a tube.  i think the hair is just... a
	pretty topping.

she tears up, swallows, and kisses him on the cheek.  he's
surprised and pleased and nervous.

		joel (cont'd)
		(shyly formal)
	so, i enjoyed meeting you.

		clementine
	you'll call me, right?

		joel
	yeah.

		clementine
	when?

		joel
	tomorrow?

		clementine
	tonight.  just to test out the phone
	lines and all.

		joel
	okay.

we stay with clementine as she watches joel tromping through
the snow and getting in his car.

