67   ext forest clearing - leia's crash site

a strange little furry face with huge black eyes comes slowly into 
view. the creature is an ewok, by the name of wicket. he seems somewhat 
puzzled, and prods leia with a spear. the princess groans; this 
frightens the stubby ball of fuzz and he prods her again. leia sits up 
and stares at the three-foot-high ewok. she tries to figure out where 
she is and what has happened. her clothes are torn; she's bruised and 
disheveled.

the ewok jumps up and grabs a four-foot-long spear, which he holds in a 
defensive position. leia watches him as he circles warily and begins 
poking her with the sharp point of the spear.

leia
cut it out!

she stands up, and the ewok quickly backs away.

leia
i'm not gonna hurt you.

leia looks around at the dense forest, and at the charred remains of 
her speeder bike, then sits down, with a sigh, on a fallen log.

leia
well, looks like i'm stuck here. trouble is, i don't know where here 
is.

she puts her head in her hands to rub away some of the soreness from 
her fall. she looks over at the watchful little ewok and pats the log 
beside her.

leia
well, maybe you can help me. come on, sit down.

wicket holds his spear up warily and growls at her like a puppy. leia 
pats the log again.

leia
i promise i won't hurt you. now come here.

more growls and squeaks from the little bear creature.

leia
all right. you want something to eat?

she takes a scrap of food out of her pocket and offers it to him. 
wicket takes a step backward, then cocks his head and moves cautiously 
toward leia, chattering in his squeaky ewok language.

leia
that's right. come on. hmmm?

sniffing the food curiously, the ewok comes toward leia and sits on the 
log beside her. she takes off her helmet, and the little creature jumps 
back, startled again. he runs along the log, pointing his spear at her 
and chattering a blue streak. leia holds out the helmet to him.

leia
look, it's a hat. it's not gonna hurt you. look. you're a jittery 
little thing, aren't you?

reassured, wicket lowers his spear and climbs back on the log, coming 
to investigate the helmet. suddenly his ears perk up and he begins to 
sniff the air. he looks around warily, whispering some ewokese warning 
to leia.

leia
what is it?

suddenly a laser bolt comes out of the foliage and explodes on the log 
next to leia. leia and wicket both roll backwards off the log, hiding 
behind it. leia holds her own laser gun ready, while wicket disappears 
underneath the log. another shot, and still no sight of anyone in the 
forest. then leia senses something and turns to find a large imperial 
scout standing over her with his weapon pointed at her head. he reaches 
out his hand for her weapon.

scout #l
freeze!  come on, get up!

she hands the weapon over, as a second scout emerges from the foliage 
in front of the log.

scout #1
go get your ride and take her back to base.

scout #2
yes, sir.

the second scout starts toward his bike, as wicket, crouched under the 
log, extends his spear and hits the first scout on the leg. the scout 
jumps and lets out an exclamation, and looks down at wicket, puzzled. 
leia grabs a branch and knocks him out. she dives for his laser pistol, 
and the second scout, now on his bike, takes off. leia fires away and 
hits the escaping bike, causing it to crash into the first scout's 
bike, which flies end over end and explodes. the forest is quiet once 
more. wicket pokes his fuzzy head up from behind the log and regards 
leia with√änew respect. he mumbles his awe. leia hurries over, looking 
around all the time, and motions the chubby little creature into the 
dense foliage.

leia
come on, let's get outta here.

as they move into the foliage, wicket takes the lead. he shrieks and 
tugs at leia to follow him.

