208   ext. wheat field - resuming                                      208

      mackelway and zero wrestle, surrounded and obscured by all of
      that wheat... zero is a monster, and he's got that tire iron.
      mackelway has a busted wrist. hardly a fair fight.

      but mackelway is battling: kicking, clawing, getting in as
      many shots as he can. his shirt rips away from his body,
      exposing that brand-mark. they roll back and forth. until:

                                                        117.


                       o'ryan (o.s.)
                 (calmly, firmly)
           up.

zero freezes. mackelway too. they turn to find:

o'ryan... who stands here, mackelway's gun in hand.

                       o'ryan (cont'd)
           up.

mackelway's relief is total. he pushes zero away, rising. zero
pulls himself off the ground, chagrinned.

                     zero
               (re: mackelway)
           glad you're here, man. guy was about to
           kill me.

o'ryan, without ceremony, puts a bullet through zero's left
palm. that got mackelway's attention.

zero howls with pain, his palm gushing. the tire-iron falls to
the ground. mackelway approaches o'ryan.

                     mackelway
           i'll take it from here.

he extends his good hand to o'ryan: "the gun." o'ryan pauses.
then...

                     o'ryan
           are you going to shoot him?

                     mackelway
           give me the gun, o'ryan.

                     zero
           hey, i just surrendered.

                      o'ryan
           shut up.

                     zero
           i surrendered! that's it!

                       o'ryan
           shut up!!!

o'ryan wheels around, aiming the gun right at zero's face.
that shuts the guy up in a hurry.

                                                        118.


from that service road now, we hear a line of sirens,
approaching from a distance. unit after unit.

                     o'ryan (cont'd)
               (quietly now)
           look at him, mack. he's not human
           anymore. go dig up that old lady's
           backyard - you'll find bodies there...
           maybe hundreds of them. of course, ya
           gotta get a warrant first, chain of
           custody's gotta be followed. one breach,
           and he walks.
               (no reply)
           my way, he's eliminated; the world is rid
           of him. it's a lot closer to justice than
           having some prosecutor tell you you've
           left a tissue sample in the wrong lab.
           isn't it?

                     mackelway
               (that stung)
           give me the fucking gun!

o'ryan turns, studies him.

...and hands him the gun. just like that.

mackelway eyes it. o'ryan doesn't say a word, just crosses
back to zero, and grabs that tire-iron off the ground.

o'ryan's now standing right behind zero, as:

                     o'ryan
               (at mackelway)
           you have to understand: none of this was
           arbitrary. we were chosen, you and i.
whap! o'ryan just swung that tire-iron into zero's rib cage.
we hear bones crack, and air rushing from the guy's lungs. he
drops to his knees, gasping.

                     o'ryan (cont'd)
           i saw us here. you did too.
thump! another violent swing of that tire-iron, busting up the
other side of zero's torso. now both sides of his rib-cage
have shattered. breathing is almost impossible.

mackelway tightens. his head just began to throb...

                     mackelway
           okay. you made your point.

                                                        119.


                     o'ryan
           bullshit! if i'd made my fucking point
           you would've shot him yourself by now!

another swing of that tire-iron, across the back of zero's
neck. he crumbles, face down.

fuck it. mackelway crosses to o'ryan and puts that gun right
up against the back of o'ryan's head.

                      mackelway
           enough!

then, an odd thing... o'ryan simply smiles.

something about having that gun pointed right at him - it's a
relief.

                      mackelway (cont'd)
           drop it.

                      o'ryan
           or what?

                     mackelway
           just drop it.

                     o'ryan
           would you shoot me?

that's something mackelway doesn't want to consider.

                     mackelway
           put it down.

                     o'ryan
               (calmly)
           i want you to think for a second. about
           your destiny. who you are. you're cursed,
           like i am - except you keep running from
           it.
               (mackelway's silent)
           you hear things. you see things. that's
           why you can't sleep, why your head always
           aches.

he turns. they are face to face. nothing but that gun between
them.

                     o'ryan (cont'd)
           ...and it's why you are going to let me
           kill this animal. and then you're going
           to kill me.

                                                         120.


that threw mackelway badly. o'ryan seizes the moment -
wheeling around...

he takes one last swing at zero, like a lumberjack. the tire-
iron impacts zero's skull with a dull thud, cracking it. he is
dead.

mackelway's eyes go wide. whole thing has been a blur.

o'ryan releases the tire-iron... and drops to his knees like a
man awaiting execution, his back to mackelway.

mackelway is silent. stunned. the blood from zero's caved-in
skull finds its way to o'ryan's knees.

but o'ryan remains peaceful. calm. ready.

                     mackelway
           get up.

                     o'ryan
           i can't do that, mack. i've seen all this
           already. for months now.

                     mackelway
           get up.

                     o'ryan
           every time, we're in this field: same
           wind, same rain. and you...

he puts a finger to his head, pretending it's a gun. then he
pretends to pull the trigger. mackelway gets the idea.

                     o'ryan (cont'd)
           it's okay. i want you to. i'm begging you
           to.

mackelway doesn't know what to do. then, making matters worse:

                     fran (o.s.)
               (aloud)
           mack?

she's about a hundred yards away... but she'll be here soon
enough. that puts some heat under o'ryan:

                     o'ryan
           i'm tired, mack.

                     fran (o.s.)
           can you hear me?

                                                        121.


she's 90 yards out now...

                     o'ryan
           pull the trigger...
               (no reply)
           i'm not going to jail. now pull the
           fucking trigger!

mackelway's frozen. o'ryan knows it.

                     o'ryan (cont'd)
           fucking coward.

o'ryan rises now, facing mackelway.

                     o'ryan (cont'd)
           some things are not up to us to decide.
           they just exist. they're inevitable. this
           field. this rain. this moment. it has all
           already happened. you know that. you've
           seen it too.

he shoves mackelway in the chest.

                     fran (o.s.)
           mack?

she's 70 yards out now...

                     o'ryan
           shut it off for me.

                     mackelway
           i'm not going to kill you, o'ryan.

                     o'ryan
           of course you will. i've seen it.

                     mackelway
           you saw wrong!

                     o'ryan
               (incredulous)
           that's impossible.

                     fran (o.s.)
           mack? can you hear me?

50 yards out now. maybe close enough to hear o'ryan's voice...

                     o'ryan
               (rambling, unraveling)
           you don't understand. those fucking faces
                     (more)

                                                        122.


                     o'ryan (cont'd)
           on that map. they call to me. i see their
           eyes in the dark - they're staring at me:
           "how did you let this happen to me?" but
           that's the thing about them - they're
           like pictures. they never blink. they
           just...stare, and always at me. that's my
           destiny, do you see? i didn't help them
           when they needed me and this is my
           penance. fine. i accept it. but i'm
           opting out now, ya get it? i can't stand
           this anymore! i wanna close my eyes for
           once and see something other than
           torture.
               (mackelway's expressionless)
           it's not a bad start, mack. we've made
           the world a little safer now. speck,
           fulcher, starkey, now zero. we've made
           justice. but i get some too. you have to
           end all this for me. that's why you're
           here. it's your destiny.

                     mackelway
           stop telling me about my fucking destiny!

                     o'ryan
               (again)
           but i've seen it!

                    mackelway
          open your eyes, o'ryan! here i am,
          standing here. i'm not shooting you.
          doesn't that fucking tell you something?
          you're a guy with a skill. period. they
          taught you more than they should've. i'm
          sorry about that... but you're not god.
          you can't see everything.
                      o'ryan
           yes i can! and you can too! that's why i
           chose you!

                     fran (o.s.)
           mack?

mackelway's not budging. o'ryan can see that.

                     o'ryan
               (re: tire-iron)
           fine. i'll make it easy for you:

o'ryan picks up that tire-iron. mackelway sees what's coming.
o'ryan swings the tire-iron as mackelway backs out of its
range.

                                                           123.


                     mackelway
           put the fucking thing down, o'ryan.

o'ryan keeps pursuing. another swing. mackelway keeps backing
up. the swing misses.

                     o'ryan
           look. it's perfect. won't even need a
           hearing this way. you apprehended the
           suspect in the commission of a murder.
           then he turned on you and you fired in
           self-defense.

o'ryan isn't letting up. and mackelway can't quite fire.

                     o'ryan (cont'd)
           these things are bigger than you -
           haven't you seen that yet? destiny.
           justice. mercy. they're vast. we're just
           puppets!

                     mackelway
           i'm not going to kill you!

                     o'ryan
           you don't get to decide that!

                       mackelway
           yes i do!

o'ryan takes one more swing, as:

                       fran (o.s.)
           freeze!!!

silence. mackelway turns. so does o'ryan.

there's fran, emerging from the tall wheat, gun trained right
on o'ryan. his shock is total.

                       fran (cont'd)
           drop it.

o'ryan doesn't move at first. then, slowly, an ironic smile
snakes its way across his lips.

                     o'ryan
               (at mackelway, surprised)
           it's funny. i never saw anyone else out
           here. did you?
mackelway doesn't answer. he can't. o'ryan eyes him.

                                                               124.


                          o'ryan (cont'd)
                do it, mack. please.
                    (mackelway's silent)
                please. i'm begging you.

     there it was: the very thing mackelway's been hearing all this
     time, the exact words. unsettling as hell.

     ...and we begin to intercut: images of this moment with images
     from those "visions" that have been hinting at this very
     wheatfield since page one...

208a intercut with/ext. wheatfield "fantasy" - same               208a

     tall wheat, wet wind, o'ryan's voice: "i'm begging you..."

     ...mackelway snaps himself out of the vision.

                           mackelway
                i can't.

     that was almost an attempt to make those images stop, to deny
     its awful, inevitable conclusion.

                          mackelway (cont'd)
                i'm not you.

                           o'ryan
                yet.

     two men, neither of them flinching... until o'ryan nods - as
     if to say "good-bye."

     ...more of that vision interrupts now: a gun, rising...

     o'ryan rears back and swings that tire-iron right at
     mackelway's head.

     fran has no choice. she fires.

     o'ryan is hit right between the shoulder blades. the tire-iron
     hits mackelway in the shoulder. o'ryan crumbles to the ground,
     landing face up.

     ...a body slumping to the ground. o'ryan... mackelway stands
     over him...

     now, real-life again, mackelway stands over o'ryan, just as
     o'ryan had always envisioned it. that makes him smile, even as
     he's dying.

                                                                  125.


                           o'ryan (cont'd)
                     (weak)
                 thank you.

      then he dies, eyes open. mackelway looks to fran...

                                                   dissolve to:

