160   int. o'ryan room - continuing                                  160

      fran enters, feeling slightly dirty from that exchange.
      mackelway checks his watch as a few agents exit the suite.

                           mackelway
                 they going to denton?

                             fran
                 mmm-hmm.

                           mackelway
                 but not you?

                           fran
                 sitting in on two autopsies.

                             mackelway
                 oh.

      he rises. heads for the door, stiff. she looks at those o'ryan
      fbi documents now - her first time seeing them...

                             fran
                 you okay?

                             mackelway
                 yeah. why?

                             fran
                 nothing.

      she leaves it at that. he's about to exit, when:

                           mackelway
                 are they male or female?

                             fran
                 huh?

                           mackelway
                 the autopsies.

                                                           85.


                     fran
           females - logan, utah; and decatur,
           alabama.

(neither city is represented with black pins on that map.)

she slides over a packet of photos: two female victims,
photographed in separate morgues - face up, face down, waist
and above, waist and below, etc.

mackelway eyes them, then leaves the room. we stay with
fran... taking in that o'ryan fbi file. it troubles her.

mackelway returns, carrying the 9-by-12 envelope that katie
gave to him.

                     fran (cont'd)
               (re: o'ryan's file)
           so is this what happens when an agent
           spins out? he gets deleted?

                     mackelway
           sometimes. the lucky ones get sent to
           wichita falls.

she breathes out an ironic laugh. he hands over the envelope,
opens it. inside: that photo of karen sumpter. mackelway
didn't pay much attention to it before.

fran eyes the photo, then the vitals.

                     mackelway (cont'd)
           friend of the receptionist, missing for
           about a year now. i told her i'd let her
           know if the body ever turned up.

fran doesn't look up from the photo.

                     fran
           the receptionist.

                     mackelway
           her name's katie.

she half-smiles: "you mean the one you've been fucking?" he
shrugs, confirming nothing - wishing fran weren't quite so
smart. she puts the photo back into the envelope.

                     fran
           i see you got the blue pin out of
           greenville.

                                                          86.


                     mackelway
           yeah. last night. kid named simms.

that confused her.

                     fran
               (re: sumpter)
           no. i meant her. the girl.

that confused him.

                     mackelway
           what're you talking about?

                     fran
           did ya look at her vitals?

she hands him the material on karen sumpter.

                     fran (cont'd)
           greenville, texas. october 26.

he grabs the material, looks at it for the first time:

"karen sumpter, age 25. ht. 5'6", wt. 110. eyes blu, hair
blnd. last seen: greenville, tx. date of disappearance: 10-26-
00."

mackelway looks to the conference table - that huge stack of
faxes, all those helpless faces.

the one on top is the one that came in last night: lloyd
simms, age 9. ht. 4'10", wt. 67 lbs. last seen: greenville,
texas. date of disappearance: 10-26-99.

at last, a pattern. a break.

mackelway grabs the simms fax, hurries out of the room.
nearest agent is grieves. mackelway hands him the fax.

                     mackelway
           need an address on this fax line.

grieves has done this on fifty different faxes now; it never
yields their suspect, but:

                     grieves
           'kay.

mackelway leans back in to the o'ryan room.

                     mackelway
           o'ryan's in greenville.

                                                            87.


                     fran
           what makes you think so?

                     mackelway
           that's where zero is.
               (fran's a blank)
           lloyd simms - october 26, '99. karen
           sumpter - october 26, 2000. both
           disappeared from greenville.
               (still no reply)
           zero comes back to the same spot, once a
           year. today's the 25th.

                     fran
           wait. when did we establish that zero was
           real?

                     mackelway
           o'ryan thinks so.

                     fran
           do you?

that's the million-dollar question, and it hangs there.

mackelway's about to answer... when he stops himself. just
noticing something. that morgue photo from logan, utah:

there's a burn mark on the lower left calf of the victim.
we've seen such a mark before, on another autopsy photo.

                     mackelway
           i've seen this before.

                     fran
           huh?

he doesn't answer, just hurries to a thick box of other
autopsy files and photos. starts rifling through them...

...until he finds the one we've seen before. the body from
trenton. he extracts it. eyes it. a confirmation...

he lays the two photos side by side. looks to fran.

                     mackelway
           same burn-mark.
               (she leans in)
           i saw it before but it didn't register.

fran eyes the photos. no doubt about it - they both have the
same burn mark on the lower left calf: a symmetrical, almost
horizontal stripe across the flesh.

                                                                   88.


                           fran
                 he burns them?

                            mackelway
                 i dunno. almost looks too symmetrical to
                 be a burn.
                     (re: logan victim)
                 they're autopsying her this morning?

                           fran
                 yeah.

      she gets the idea: "find out where the hell this mark on the
      leg came from." grieves enters.

                           grieves
                 fax number traces back to a copy center
                 on i-30. greenville.
                     (mackelway eyes his watch)
                 i called. they don't open for another
                 hour.

      mackelway looks to fran. she's not entirely sold yet... but
      she's getting there.

                                                         cut to:

