int. thomas' apartment - night

kimberly whispers into the phone.

                       kimberly
              i'm sorry, dad, we're having a hard
              time with shaina's eulogy. i'll
              stay here at virginia's tonight and
              see you tomorrow. i love you too.

she hangs up, looking guilty for having lied to her father. clear
keeps her eyes on the pens that roll on the slightly canted table
into the about-to -fall white pages directory.

                      clear
             remember everyone, just because
             kimberly's got the power doesn't
             mean we're not all capable of
             seeing signs to some extent.

the pens softly tap the phone book one by one until it lazily tips
over and plops heavily onto a goose-down throw pillow.

small feathers from the pillow are carried upwards by the breeze.
everyone in the room watches them rise.

                      rory
             it's like forrest gump.

they float across the room, ultimately landing on a mousetrap! snap!
the trap flies over and knocks into the base of the unstable grabber
- which tips and slowly slides down the wall.

clear, in a chair, looks directly above her head at a large swordfish
mounted on the wall.

the grabber picks up speed, arcs downward and hits the mounted
swordfish. the supporting brackets give, causing the swordfish to tip
and slide downward!

clear lurches back in her chair just in time - the razor sharp bill
impales the seat cushion between her legs!

                     clear
             fuck. should have seen that
             coming. the institution's made me
             soft.

clear gets up, carefully easing herself around the swordfish. eugene
isn't quite sure what to make of what he's just seen.

                      eugene
             if death has got such a hard-on for
             you, maybe you should get the hell
             away from us.

                      kimberly
             we need her. she's the only one
             who's dealt with this before,
             idiot!

kimberly looks self-conscious by her outburst. clear, however, looks
grateful.

                      clear
             we're all going to have to open our
             eyes from now on. look out for
             each other. sleep in shifts.
                    (looks around apartment)
             and we've got to safeproof this
             deathtrap.

montage - safeproofing the apartment

everyone but nora and eugene helps unplug appliances, put out the
fire, take down hanging objects, switch off the gas, put sharp
objects away, affix padding to chart corners...

kat, placing poisonous cleansers and flammable liquids in a box,
nervously pulls out a pack of smokes. thomas watches as he takes a
hanging mirror off the wall.

                      kat
             screw this. i'm going outside for
             a smoke.

                      thomas
             you think you should?     it's not
             safe out there.

                      kat
             so? nora's gotta bite it before me
             anyway, right?

kat steps towards the front door, then remembers the cell phone and
grabs it just in case. thomas smiles 'good job' at her.

kimberly, unscrewing the light bulb, looks up when nora rises from
the couch in a stupor and struggles to put on her jacket. kimberly
looks concerned.

                      kimberly
             where are you going, nora?    you
             okay?

nora fights the sleeve, dazed and defeated.

                      nora
             four years ago my husband died.
             now tim. there's nothing left for
             me.

kimberly stops pouring liquor down the drain.

                      kimberly
             don't say that. once you lose
             hope, it's already too late.

eugene snickers. nora looks up, anger surfacing.

                       nora
              if it's my time to go, to be in
              heaven with my family, then i can
              accept that.

                      kimberly
             you can't give up. don't accept
             death's plan. trust me, you can
             fight this. if we can just survive
             long enough until that baby is
             born, we can --

nora looks more resolute than ever.

                       nora
              if you'll excuse me, i have a
              funeral to prepare.

everyone looks crushed when nora heads for the door. except eugene,
who stands up as well.

                      eugene
             yeah, why am i listening to a girl
             who just got out of the nut house?

as eugene heads out, kimberly becomes enraged and grabs him.

                      kimberly
             seeing you die once was enough for
             me.

                      eugene
             whatever. i control my life, not
             fate.

                      clear
             i'll be sure to put that on your
             tombstone.

rory presses a cell phone into eugene's hand on his way out.

                      rory
             be careful. and even if you don't
             believe, give this to nora.


