ext. gibbon's farm - continuous

thomas, kimberly, clear and rory watch the jaws of life being clamped
onto kat's door.

                       thomas
              where's the cell phone clear gave
              you?

                       rory
              i dunno. i think i gave it to
              eugene back at your place.

                       thomas
              damn it. we have to call the
              greenwood police station and warn
              isabella.

thomas runs in the direction of some local police. after he leaves,
rory drifts away from the pack, hand in pocket.

kimberly moves back to kat, who chain -smokes in the front seat of the
expedition.

                       kimberly
              you doing alright in there?

                       kat
              my legs are starting to cramp up.
              and god, why am i so thirsty? does
              anyone have any fiji?

the ka-chunk of the jaws of life next to kat startles her half to
death.

                       kat
              christ, you wanna give me a heads
              up next time, pal?

brian and mr. gibbons approach with a cup of tap water. they hand it
to kat, who frowns but drinks anyway.

cut to:

the drip

of the leaking gas becomes a steady trickle. gas slithers over packed
dirt, around debris, toward the crash site.

back to:

thomas dark room

speaks to another cop who clicks off his radio.

                       cop
              she's at phelps memorial. they're
              prepping her to give birth right
              now.

                       thomas
              where's that?

                       cop
              a few miles up the road.   near the
              docks.

kat

lights one cigarette off the other ka -chucnk! the sound makes her
flinch, dropping the cigarette on the floor.

                       kat
              damn, can't you be quieter with
              that thing?

                       rescue worker
                     (dripping scorn)
              sure, i'll just set it to the
              "quiet" mode.

kat rescues the glowing cigarette from around her feet and inhales.
ka-chunk!!! she jumps again, but maintains her composure.

meanwhile

the gasoline purposefully trickles down corrugated steel, through
pipes, closer and closer to the expedition. at one point, the gas
even disappears into a hole in the ground, only to resurface twenty
feet closer to the site...

kimberly

looks confused to watch rory climb between the fence wires and drift
the dead oak tree into the field. thomas runs down the hill toward
kimberly.

                       thomas
              we gotta go now.   isabella's in
              labor.

rescue workers pull off a large chunk of door. ka-chunk! kat
flinches.

                       kimberly
              what about that?

                       clear
                     (calls over to kat)
              how you doing in there, hero?

                       kat
                     (re: spike behind head)
              i guess it could be worse.

brian hands out drinks to rescue workers.

                       thomas
              so let's go...where the hell is
              rory?!

thomas sees rory in the field and angrily hops the fence, heading
directly under the dead oak tree.

rory, his back to everyone, finally opens the bindle. enraptured, he
delicately unfolds it...

kimberly

is put on alert by a fresh breeze. her attention is caught by the
window of an emergency vehicle. in the reflection, kimberly sees a
man sitting on the expedition, but when she spins ar ound, there's no
one there.

ka-chung! the door comes off the expedition, finally freeing kat!
everyone applauds!

                        kimberly
              wait!

mr. gibbons, applauding with everyone else, chooses that very moment
to sit on the bumper.

deploying the airbag!

slamming kat's head backwards through the spike, head-kabob.

kat's dead limp hand drops her last cigarette -- which bounces along
the hard dirt -- toward the oncoming gas. closer, closer,.. the
breeze kicks up, aiding the cigarette.

whoosh, the gas fuse catches. the blusih flame travels through pipes,
over rocks, racing toward the news van.

kimberly , half-traumatized, watches an ominous breeze rustle through
the field, up to the trees, toward thomas.

the gas burns up an incline, and disappears into the ground... and
pops up twenty feet closer to the news van.

kimberly follows the breeze to the dead oak tree under which thomas
stands. and blows a large branch until it snaps! a startled thomas
sees it fall just in time to dive to safety.

clear, seeing the flame, instinctively runs from the van.

                      clear
             get back!

boom! the news van's explosion hurls two fence posts just over
thomas' head, end over end, the two lengths of wire stretched between
them. the flying garrote heads directly for --

rory, who sorts hard, stands up with a satisfied smile - and is
sliced into three sharp cuts of beef.

the silence from the emergency crew is deafening. mr. gibbons starts
crying hysterically.

                      mr. gibbons
             i didn't mean to do it - i didn't
             know.

kimberly numbly stares at the fallen branch, the one that caused
thomas to step out of the path of the flying fence.

                      kimberly
                    (to herself)
             it wasn't his turn.   and it's not
             my turn.

kimberly sees the corpses of kat and rory, buries the pain, and
approaches mr. gibbons.

                      kimberly
             give me the keys to your truck.
             now!

                      mr. gibbons
                    (hysterical)
             anything you want. anything.      i
             wish i knew. i didn't...

mr. gibbons hands kimberly the keys.

