ext. lake - day

pov driver

grease-covered hands reach out toward a steering wheel of a white van
speeding out of control toward a lake!

the van crashes through a railing and plunges into the water. in
moments, the van fills with water, the driver inside trapped.
drowning. horrible.

and on the rearview mirror, six floral scented air-freshners.

back to:

kimberly looks down at her grease -covered hands and looks ill.

                       kimberly
              ...the same hands from the van.

finally everything makes sense to clear.

                       clear
              it's you kimberly. the
              premonitions are about you.

kimberly trembles, refusing to accept what she's hearing.

                        kimberly
              no!   it can't be.

                       clear
                     (suddenly remembering)
              i have to save eugene!

clear leaves kimberly and thomas together. kimberly verges on tears
and thomas consoles her with a hug.

in the background

clear looks at passing room numbers while hurrying down the corridor.
she comes to a room with a huge cart parked outside, blocking the
door. she looks up to see - b -187.

clear leans into it, pushing it out of the way of the door.

                           clear
                eugene?    are you in there?

eugene's room

eugene strains to hear through the thick door.

                         clear (o.s.)
                can you hear me? i'm coming in .

an intense wave of relief washes over eugene.

back to:

as kimberly hugs thomas, she watches clear push the cart past the
door.

                         orderly (o.s.)
                make way, make way lovebirds.

kimberly spins as eugene's orderly passes her; a paper, pen and a
crossword book in one hand, a birthday cake in the other.

the cake reads "happy birthday gregory". the thirteen sparkling
candles on top oddly frame clear's head.

                           kimberly
                oh no...

the orderly speeds down the corridor toward clear, whose hand reaches
for eugene's door handle. she leans into it --

                         orderly
                       (to clear)
                thanks hon, the henzels are going
                crazy for this thing.

thomas and kimberly

watch as clear opens the door, briefly revealing eugene, a whoosh of
oxygen --

boom!!!

clear's body is obscenely hurled end over end towards the camera,
heading straight for kimberly and thomas!

thomas throws himself and kimberly around the corner to prevent being
crushed by clear's lifeless body!

the hospital erupts in total chaos. just as kimberly is about to
break down completely, she sees --

a woman hurrying down the hallway in their direction, pushing a crash
cart.

kimberly sees the nametag: kalarjian.

                         kimberly
                nurse kalarjian...

                         dr. kalarjian
                doctor kalarjian. excuse me,
                please.

angle on cart

defribulator paddles rest on top. and then dr. kalarjian passes them
toward the area of the explosion.

kimberly ominously turns, the camera following her view, until she
sees a small lake across the street from the hospital.

                         kimberly
                oh my god. that's it. the lake.
                the eeg machine. nurse kalarjian.

                         thomas
                what?

just then, an ambulance skids up to the nearest entrance. paramedics
jump out and run towards the blast site.

                         kimberly
                you can't cheat destiny. i know
                what i have to do to save us. i
                have to die.

                         thomas
                that's crazy. you can't give up
                now. we can still fight this
                thing.

but kimberly isn't listening. she stares through the glass doors at
the --

ambulance

a red stripe down the side, but the hood is completely white. six
floral scented air-fresheners hang from the rearview. the 'van' from
her vision! and it's running!

                         kimberly
                i have to do this.

kimberly wipes tears from her eyes, kisses thomas' cheek, then turns
and runs before he can speak.

