int. kat's expedition - continuous

                      clear
             it's all starting to come together.
             when alex got us off flight 180, it
             didn't just change our lives. it

               affected everyone and everything
               we've come into contact with ever
               since.

                        eugene
               i'm not sure i understand.

                        clear
               being alive after our time caused
               an outward ripple - a rift in
               death's design.

eugene nods, slowly getting it.

                        eugene
               so if you never got off the plane,
               none of us would be ali ve in the
               first place.

                        clear
               that's why death is working
               backwards. it's tying up all the
               loose ends, sealing the rift once
               and for all Â­


this chapter of the screenplay contains scene(s) that do not appear
or occur elsewhere in the final movie. in order to maintain the
integrity of the screenplay, it has not been edited.

cu left tire

a thick retread sheers itself onto the pavement.

brian

the wood chipper roar s loudly. suddenly, some forgotten stray chunk
shoots from the spout --

the airborne chunk of wood cracks the white van's windshield. steve
veers out of control.

kat sees the white van ahead swerving into her lane. she quickly
jerks the wheel to the right.

kat's left front tire blows! it sends rubber flying and the entire
suv pulls hard to the left, spinning her out of control into the
oncoming lane of traffic - toward the white van!

isabella screams! steve jerks the wheel to the left! the white van
has a close near miss with the expedition, and goes off the road
toward a lake!

                          steve
               hang on!

the suv misses the tractor -- but sails off the other side of the
embankment, spinning and rolling towards --

the gibbons' farm

at the bottom of the hill of a large rural farm, a propane tank sits
at the edge of the property!

the suv barrels down the hill - coming right for it!

inside the suv

all kat can do is cover her head with her arms.

the white van

speeding toward the lake! isabella screams, in pain, not fear. the
white van is ready for splashdown.

steve finesses the hand brake while tapping the accelerator. he's
able to right the van away from the water without so much as a hard
jerk.

                         steve
                we're okay, we're okay.

the propane tank

it's about to get creamed - but the bouncing expedition just barely
misses it! it continues, backwards, crashing through a temporary
fence and right into --

an agricultural construction site!

the expedition plows past earth movers, crashing through irrigation
ditches and pipes, shrapnel flying everywhere.

just as the expedition comes to a stop, an irrigation pipe rockets
through the rear window -- miraculously missing clear and rory --
coming to a rest just behind kat's head.

inside the white van

steve sees the wreckage on the other side of the highway and slows
down. isabella squeezes his hand white.

                          isabella
                please.   it's not going to wait.

                         steve
                i've got to stop and help those
                people.

                          isabella
                 do you want to deliver this baby?

steve looks ill, then sees another car stopping by the crash. he
floors it and speaks into the shoulder mic of his cop radio.

the expedition

the dust settles in the silent car. the only sound is a quiet, wet
wheeze. clear, dazed, looks around carefully, avoiding the metal
spike that skewers the vehicle.

rory holds his trembling hand before his eyes as if amazed to see it.
kimberly shakes her hair, spilling glass onto the floor. kat tries to
open the door, but it won't budge.

                       kat
              not my time.     amazing...

                          thomas
                 is everybody alright?

a bloody hand seizes his shoulder!

thomas turns to see

eugene spasming in the back seat! he clutches his ribcage in agony
and wheezes! blood trickles from his mouth.

                       kat
              he can't breathe!        he can't
              breathe!

                          clear
                 oh my god, eugene!?

eugene's head tilts forward, unconscious.

