int. the loft

steven and laurel are briefly immobilized by shock as the
door comes flying open.

nicky moves toward the candle-lit couple.

laurel realizes who he is and stands by the sofa. she zips
her skirt.

nicky is trying to understand what he sees, then he gets it.

                         nicky
                    (quiet)
               laurel.

nicky holds his gun hand aloft, repeating the image of bill
buckner with the baseball in his glove -- nicky's
hallucination.

then nicky issues a cry, a sound from the time before humans
acquired language. it is the audible anguish of his life,
from the fetus onward.

we hear what he is saying in overlapping echoes and we
realize he is crying out a name. we recognize the look on his
face and the formation of syllables on his lips as elements
we'd seen earlier -- on buckner's face when he shouted
something as he made n
the "third out" of the tenth inning.

                         nicky
               ste-vennnn schwim-merrrr!

laurel reacts with horror to the revelation of steven's
identity. she rearranges her bra.

nicky stumbles, drops his gun. it goes off.

steven flees toward the shadows at the back of the loft, his
hand moving toward the gun in his shoulder holster.

nicky picks up his gun and begins to stalk him.

steven fires twice striking a nearby lamp. the room is dark
now. lit only by the blue glow of the tv.

the tv sports roundup, which has been showing football
highlights, has switched to baseball -- highlights of the red
sox-mets.

nicky reaches laurel.

                         nicky
                    (crying out)
               this is my daughterrrrr!

steven is wide-eyed at the news.

                         laurel
               i don't think he knew, daddy.

nicky sees the photo of steven and his cat. he shoots twice,
blows it away.

                         laurel
               daddy, i'm sorry. but he was so
               beautiful. i trusted him. when i
               saw what he really looks like --

a voice from shadows:

                         steven
                    (os)
               am i really so deeply repugnant?

                         laurel
               yes.

                         nicky
               go home, laurel. tell your mother i
               will be late.

nicky walks toward steven's voice, toward the shadows.

                         nicky
               you're going to die. you're a dead
               man. you're dead.

he notices laurel following behind him.

                         nicky
               look. i'm sorry you keep running
               into dishonest men. but you're only
               eighteen. we can still turn it
               around.

                         laurel
               except i won't have a father
               anymore.

                         nicky
               i'll see you all the time. i'll get
               a place right nearby. one room. no
               distractions. we'll talk.

he shouts into the darkness.

                         nicky
               you're dead!

laurel puts her hand on his shoulder.

                         laurel
               what will we talk about?

                         nicky
               everything.

nicky sees one of the new york magazine ads, steven
schwimmer's face mounted on the cardboard. he fires three
times, wiping out schwimmer's eyes.

                         laurel
               will i believe you when you tell me
               something?

                         nicky
               there's nothing left for me to lie
               about.

nicky starts into the darkness only to see steven emerge from
the shadows, his gun lowered. oddly, he seems distracted by
something on another part of the room. he is looking at the
tv set on the counter.

nicky watches him approach the kitchen area. he follows, gun
raised.

steven sits on a stool to watch tv.

nicky approaches warily, his gun aimed at steven's head,
which is blue-lit by the tv screen.

                         nicky
               you're dead. i see you on a morgue
               slab drained of all fluids.

laurel follows at a distance to see what they're so
interested in.

nicky puts the gun muzzle flush against steven's temple.

                         nicky
               i see the outline of your body in
               chalk on this very floor.

                         laurel
                    (whispering)
               daddy, wait.

steven is watching slow-motion footage of bill buckner
missing the slow roller.

                         steven
               then they lost?

                         nicky
               why does it matter?

                         steven
               if they lost tonight, they'll lose
               tomorrow. it's all over.

                         nicky
               why do you care?

                         steven
               they're my team.

                         nicky
               no. they're not your team. they're
               my team.

nicky cocks the hammer.

                         steven
               they're my team, too. i grew up on
               boyleston street. right by fenway
               park. i went to fifty or sixty
               games a year. all by myself. i was
               one of those kids with scabby
               elbows. i called out to the
               players. `look over here. hi, i'm
               steven. my parents are divorced.'

                         nicky
               i went to college in boston so i
               could be near the red sox. i took
               summer classes and the cut them to
               go to the game. my wife is from
               boston. lillian ziegler?

                         steven
               the red sox were my world. i
               surrendered my existence to a team
               that couldn't win the big one.

                         nicky
               if you're such a devoted fan, why
               were you at the play tonight
               instead of the game? answer
               carefully. this is important. you
               could have gone to the theater last
               night. there was no game last
               night.

                         steven
               because i can't bear to watch. when
               they lose, i die inside. it's like
               some little person named steve just
               crumples up and dies. i wait for
               the scores. i still die, hearing
               the scores, but it's over in a
               second. i can't survive the game
               pitch by pitch, inning by inning.
               i've done it too many times. and i
               can't do it anymore.

nicky lowers the gun.

                         nicky
               i was six years old the day pesky
               hesitated throwing home and
               slaughter scored all the way from
               first. that's when i knew the red
               sox were my team. pity and terror.

                         steven
               when i traveled through asia this
               summer, i went to tremendous
               trouble and expense to rent a car
               with a phone so i could call up
               sports phone in new york and get
               the scores. i drove through the war
               in afghanistan calling sports phone
               like every hour on the hour, for
               updates.

                         nicky
               what about my play?

                         laurel
               yes. and no more evasive tactics.

                         steven
               it's your best play, nicky.

                         laurel
               see, daddy.

                         steven
               i've seen it twice. i went back
               tonight to be sure. it's a brave
               and honest piece of work.

                         laurel
               what else?

                         steven
               an artistry and sensitivity you've
               never shown before.

                         nicky
               and you're not saying that because
               of the gun in my hand?

                         steven
               you're out of bullets.

nicky points the gun at the palm of his own left hand and
pulls the trigger. a click.

                         laurel
               see, daddy.

                         steven
               and peter redmond helped immensely.
               these pauses were exquisitely
               timed. he made us wait and wait. he
               built a gorgeous tension and
               suspense.

                         nicky
               we worked very hard on the pauses.

nicky places it on the counter.

                         steven
               i called sports phone from lhasa,
               tibet. freezing in my little rented
               fiat. sheep on a hillside. rocky
               debris dating back millions and
               millions of years, from the time
               the himalayas thrust up when the
               plates of india and asia collided.
               red sox 3, white sox 2. a moment in
               the history of the world.

nicky takes steven's head and moves it tenderly against his
chest. when nicky releases the head, he has steven's toupee
in his hand. he looks at it briefly, then hands it to laurel.

