84   int. alleyway - continuous                                        84

     ...into a narrow alleyway.     the drops.    ending suddenly.    in
     a puddle.

     spooner. crazed. wounded. exhausted. spins around. where
     is it? where is it? then he hears. a droplet falling.
     into the puddle. slowly. looks up to see...

     the maintenance robot. hovering above him. straddling the
     two alley walls like some weird metallic rock spider. its
     iii laws safe logo glinting in the sunlight.....

                                                      64.


spooner aims his gun and fires! the maintenance robot, lets
go, falling right onto him. knocking the gun from his hand.

the robot swivels around. bringing down his foot...but...
spooner...rolls to the side just in time as crash! the
robot's foot...breaks up the concrete...

the robot...grabs spooner by the jacket...lifting him
up...shoving him...against the wall...about to crush him
when...

spooner...kicks out its knees...the robot...smashing into the
wall...then bounces back...trying...to pin spooner...back...

man and machine...struggling...spooner...losing his
footing...falling...the maintenance robot...looming over
him...

spooner's hand...whips back...grabbing his back-up
weapon...squeezing off some shots...into the robot's arm...it
breaks off...

spooner...scrambling back...continues firing...the
robot...jerking back...a macabre dance...until spooner...runs
out of bullets...

the robot...recovers...grabbing the gun from spooner's
hand...pistol-whipping him...then picking him up and...

hurling him against the wall...spooner...watching as
fluid...gushes from the robot's body...the robot...taking a
swing at him which spooner...

blocks...with his right arm...the robot...ready...to try
again...but stalling...having lost...too much fluid...it
topples...to the ground...

spooner. exhausted. beaten to a pulp. his knees, starting
to buckle. as he thinks he sees. in the distance...

a robotic clean-up crew...heading down the alley towards
them...

spooner. crashes to the ground. as another robot. suddenly
appears above him. its fingers made up of needles...as it
closes in on him...

                     spooner
           noooo!

                                        we fade...

                                                              65.


