int. delÕs saloon 
ben and pete drink at the bar. 
ben 
i totally know what youÕre talking 
about, man. if i wrote out the list of 
shit alison doesnÕt let me do it would 
be endless. donÕt smoke pot. donÕt 
have samurai swords in your room. 
donÕt have illegal grow operations in 
the house. i could go on all fucking 
day. have i told her to stop doing 
anything ever? no. 
pete 
marriage is like that show Òeverybody 
loves raymond,Ó but itÕs not funny. 
all the problems are the same, but 
itÕs... instead of all the funny, 
pithy dialogue, everybodyÕs just 
really pissed off and tense. marriage 
is like an unfunny, tense version of 
Òeverybody loves raymond,Ó but it 
doesnÕt last twenty-two minutes. it 
lasts forever. 
ben 
letÕs get out of here, man. honestly, 
letÕs just go. letÕs go to vegas. 
pete 
letÕs do it. 
ben 
yeah. 
pete 
why not? 
