int. alisonÕs guest house 
alison sits on the bed while ben kneels in front of her. 
ben 
alison, iÕm sure this isnÕt how you 
pictured it being exactly and itÕs not 
how i wanted it. that is why iÕm 
presenting you with this empty box. 
itÕs a promise, alison. a promise that 
one day i will fill this with a ring 
that you deserve, a beautiful ring. i 
canÕt afford it yet. iÕve picked it 
out, though. itÕs at de beers and itÕs 
really nice. so, basically, iÕm asking 
you, will you marry me? because iÕm in 
love with you. 
alison 
i love you too. 
ben 
really? thatÕs so nice to hear. thatÕs 
the first time a girlÕs ever said that 
to me. 
alison 
but hereÕs the thing. 
knocked up - 72.
ben 
thereÕs a thing? 
alison 
i donÕt really know yet what that love 
means. itÕs so new and itÕs so 
exciting. itÕs great. i donÕt know. 
weÕve only known each other for 
seventeen weeks. 
ben 
look, i thought you felt weird that 
weÕre having a baby and weÕre not 
engaged. iÕm going to get off my knee. 
it hurts. 
ben sits next to alison on the bed. 
alison 
iÕm okay with that. weÕre just doing 
what we can. i donÕt want us to put 
any more pressure on ourselves than we 
have. 
ben 
that makes sense. 
alison 
i didnÕt hurt your feelings, did i? 
ben 
no. i just wanted to do right by you. 
if you donÕt want to, thatÕs totally 
cool. 
alison 
i really do love you. 
ben 
i know. thanks. you mentioned that. 
itÕs nice. 
