int. hillyer home kitchen - day

cut to a shot of willcox hillyer as he goes into the kitchen.
he picks up the whisky bottle and pours himself a very large
drink.

another angle, close on willcox hillyer as he stares across
the kitchen lost in thought.

							dissolve to:

blur-bordered shot of rose

in the kitchen, a sunny smile on her face as she pours coffee
for daddy. a very quick moment, only a few seconds.

							dissolve to:

a close shot of willcox hillyer

in the kitchen, drink in hand, a look of grief on his face.
he struggles to control himself, puts a hand over his eyes,
then pulls himself together, turns from the kitchen.

shot of the patio

on willcox hillyer and daddy as the former walks up with his
refreshed drink and sits down. he is in control now, his face
is expressionless and he is seemingly calm.

			willcox hillyer 
	well, you have knocked me for a
	hell of a loop, old man. a hell of
	a loop.

			daddy 
		(simply)
	i know. you loved her. so did i. it
	was an awful shock to me, too. an
	awful shock. rose was so alive it's
	hard to believe.

			willcox hillyer 
	i can't believe it, daddy. i know
	it must be true, but i can't
	believe it.

			daddy 
	it's true, son. the girl with the
	cornflower eyes is dead, she is no
	more,

daddy pauses, in trouble emotionally, but gets a grip on
himself and in an almost dispassionate manner; but powerful
feeling is behind his words.

			daddy (cont'd)
	she got cancer of the breast, was
	operated on and had a seven-year
	recovery, then after a brief
	illness passed on in her sleep, as
	the man with whom she'd lived in
	beautiful love and harmony for
	twenty-five years held her hand.
	that is what happened, son, and god
	rest her lovely soul!

cut to a close shot of willcox hillyer. despite his efforts
to control himself, tears are in his eyes. he clenches his
teeth, takes a big swallow of his drink.

another angle on them both as daddy rises.

			daddy (cont'd)
	and now, if you are through with
	that yankee whisky, we'll go to the
	holiday inn and get some dinner.

shot of willcox hillyer and daddy

as they walk toward the red rental ford. daddy uses a cane.
he is a very old man. willcox hillyer looks in pain, he
grimaces as they walk along.

			willcox hillyer 
	why rose? why rose, daddy?

			daddy 
	nobody lives forever, boy. who'd
	want to?

			willcox hillyer 
	that's a hell of a thing to say.
	why, rose?

			daddy 
		(stops and firmly)
	now look, boy, get a grip on
	yourself. rose had a good life. she
	found her. right, didn't she? she
	triumphed over everything, what are
	you blubbering about?

			willcox hillyer
	i'm not blubbering.

cut to a shot of the red ford going down the familiar
driveway.

shot on daddy and willcox hillyer

in the car. daddy is staring fiercely ahead, willcox hillyer
stares ahead in gloom.

shot of the red ford

as it pulls up in front of the holiday inn we have already
seen.

shot on daddy and willcox hillyer

in the car. willcox hillyer sits there staring off into space
in deep gloom. daddy eyes him and now relents. we see
sympathy in his face.

			daddy 
		(gently)
	rose isn't dead, son. not really.
	some of us die, but some of us
	don't. rose lives. as long as some
	little girl somewhere gets herself
	up and goes out, rose lives.

cut to a shot of daddy and buddy, now middle-aged willcox
hillyer, as they walk toward the entrance of the holiday inn.
music.
