int. hillyer home - kitchen - day

a shot of a coolly angry mother in the kitchen. it is late
morning. as she talks the camera pulls back to show a
sheepish buddy standing "on the carpet before her. the other
children, doll and waski, are seated at the kitchen table
having hamburgers for lunch. they are happily smiling with
schadenfreude amusement at their brother's discomfiture.

			mother 
	brother, when i have to wake you up
	at eleven o'clock in the morning
	you're either sick or you were up
	very late last night. 
		(points a finger at him)
	and you weren't reading huckleberry
	finn. i looked and its not in your
	room. now what were you doing?

			buddy 
		(sheepish)
	mother, i have to tell the truth. i
	wasn't reading huckleberry finn, i
	was reading one of those little
	dirty comic books.

			mother 
		(sadly)
	oh, brother, i am so disappointed
	in you. you mustn't look at those
	horrible things, they degrade the
	human image.

			brother 
		(hangs head)
	they're filthy, mother.

			mother 
	sex isn't ugly, sex is one of the
	most beautiful things in life, the
	creative power of the universe is
	behind it.

			brother 
	i know, mother.

			mother 
	but we must respect that power, we
	must be in awe of it.

			brother 
	i am in awe of it, mother.

			mother 
	i don't think you are sufficiently
	in awe of it. get the castor oil.

			brother 
		(winces, as doll and waski
		 happily smile)
	oh, mother, not the castor oil.

			mother
	this isn't punishment, i don't
	believe in punishment. it's for
	your health. obviously you're sick
	if you can act like that.

as she talks, buddy reluctantly gets a bottle of castor oil
and a tablespoon from a shelf and brings it to her. a smiling
doll comes forward and hands buddy half of an orange. he
makes a face at her. mother takes the bottle and pours out a
tablespoon of castor oil.

			buddy
		(wanly)
	mother, cant you make it calomel
	instead of castor oil?

			mother
	this is for your own good. when you
	look at negative, destructive
	things like those little filthy
	comic books, you are sick. here,
	take this.

			buddy
		(he is resigned, there's
		 no way out; he makes a
		 face, swallows the castor
		 oil)
	geccch, yehh, guhhhh!

			mother 
	stop gagging like that and putting
	on a show, and swallow it. 

			buddy 
	uhhh, gahdam stuff! 

			mother 
	what did you say, brother? 

			buddy 
	i said ahhh-dam stuff. 

			mother
	no, you didn't say that, brother.

			buddy 
	yes, i did, mother. your hearing
	aid isn't working right. i said
	ahhh-dam stuff.

			doll 
	no, mother, he's lying...

			buddy
	shut up, doll. i'll cut your guts

			waski
		(happily excited,
		 stammering)
	he did lie, and... and... and
	mother, yesterday he stole money
	out of your pocketbook!

			buddy
	quiet, you little muddy-eyed brat,
	or ill kill you!

			mother
	children, children! be quiet, all
	of you! 
		(the children at once
		 simmer down)
	the vibrations in this house are
	strange today. where's rose,
	anyhow?

			buddy
	she's getting herself up to go out.

			mother 
		(frowns, adjusts hearing
		 aid)
	what'd you say, brother?

			buddy 
	she's getting herself up to go out.
	i think she's coming down the hall
	now.

			mother
	oh, yes, it's thursday. 
		(glances around at sound
		 of an opening door)
	hello, rose, dear... 
		(her eyes open wide as she
		 stares at rose,
		 disconcerted; now weakly)
	... my, you're... looking pretty...

cut to a shot of rose in the doorway of the kitchen. she is
quite an apparition. she wears bright red lipstick, pink
rouge on her cheeks, mascara and her hair is coiffed up in
some outlandish manner, but her clothes are the most
remarkable thing of all.

the skirt is of strange, pink, semi-shiny and very thin
material and has about a dozen tiny little flowers that could
be rosebuds sewed on it. it fits extremely snugly to say the
least. the blouse seems a composite: it has frilly white
sleeves that are opaque and otherwise is made of filmy white
material that is hardly opaque at all. she has no bra and her
breasts are half visible, the nipples denting the material.
it is pretty wild for 1935. she seems to have on no underwear
of any kind; the skirt, which clings to her like a bathing
suit, shows no panty seams. she is carrying a shiny black
patent leather pocketbook and has on high heel black patent
leather shoes and no stockings. an ingenuous little smile is
on her face.

			rose 
	how do you like my outfit? i made
	most of it myself.

rose walks in, "modeling" the outfit and the camera picks up
mother.

			mother 
		(smiling, slightly aghast)
	well, it's... very gay.

we hear the sound of the model a on the driveway.

			buddy 
	here comes daddy.

			rose 
		(staring down admiringly
		 at the outfit)
	i have a knack for designing
	clothes. but i had to buy the shoes
	and the pocketbook.

			mother 
		(makes up her mind to
		 defend rose)
	well, i think it's charming, rose. 
		(tactfully)
	but don't you think... ah, the
	skirt is a little tight?

			rose 
	oh, no, that's the style. it's
	meant to be clinging.

we hear the porch door slam. smiling, happy, rose glances
around. we hear the sound of the kitchen door opening.

cut to a pov shot of daddy in the kitchen doorway. as usual,
he has a rolled-up glenville tribune in his hand and a straw
hat on the back of his head.his hands are on his hips and he
is hunched forward as if he cannot believe what he sees.

			daddy 
	ye gods and little fishes. what
	have you done to yourself, rose?

on them all. rose is smiling, happy to be the center of
attention.

			rose 
	nothin'. i got myself up, that's
	all.

			daddy 
	got yourself up?

			rose 
	yeah. i'm goin' out.

daddy walks slowly into the kitchen shaking his head. sits at
table.

			daddy 
	um-hmm. well, that is the damndest
	outfit i ever saw in my life. you
	walk down the street like that and
	they'll put you in jail, rose.

			mother 
	why, they won't either. she looks
	pretty. and i wish you wouldn't
	pick on the poor girl all the time.
	don't listen to him, rose, you look
	pretty, even beautiful.

			rose 
		(smiles affectionately at
		 mother)
	you're so sweet.

			daddy 
	if you've got time before you go
	"out," get me a half-a-cup of
	coffee, rose. not a whole cup, a
	half-a-cup.

			rose 
	why, sure, always got time to get
	you a half-a-cup, and one of these
	days i'm gonna get you a whole cup
	and see what happens.

			daddy 
		(a growl, doesn't like
		 jokes about his foibles)
	um-hmmuhh. i never drink a whole
	cup, my nerves can't stand the
	caffeine. ehh-hh, lord awful
	insomnia in reverse last night. lay
	there and sweated blood for hours.

			doll 
		(sweetly)
	daddy, buddy was up late last night
	reading little dirty comic books.
	mother gave him a dose of castor
	oil and he cursed it, he took the
	lords name in vain, then claimed he
	hadn't said it. he lied, daddy.

			mother 
	you mustn't be a tattletale, dear.
	you mustn't be delilah-ish and
	jezebel-ish toward your brother,
	dear.

			doll 
	i'm only trying to help him,
	mother.

			buddy 
	heh, what a hypocrite.

			mother 
		(to daddy)
	i do wish you'd speak to brother.
	it's true he's been looking at
	those horrible little books again.

			daddy 
		(stares sternly at buddy)
	lay off of that stuff, son. it
	upsets your mother.

			mother 
		(genuinely worried)
	i'm serious. we forget he's just a
	child. i wish you'd speak to him.

			daddy 
	i'll take him with me downtown. 
		(glances at rose as she
		 comes with coffee)
	and you, too, rose, if you want a
	ride.

			rose 
	sure, love one. here's your half-a
	cup of coffee.

daddy is staring with a very dubious frown at rose's skirt.
he slowly shakes his head.

			daddy 
	that's a pretty stylish skirt,
	rose. the only thing i don't
	understand is how did you ever get
	it on.

			rose 
		(happy, pleased by his
		 interest)
	well, it has buttons.

points to little buttons on right side of the skirt.

			daddy 
	how can the buttons stand the
	pressure?

			rose 
	there are more on the other side.

points to buttons on left side.

			daddy 
	turn around, darlin'.

happy to oblige, rose turns around. her plump, round,
feminine behind is only too plainly revealed through the thin
material. daddy slowly shakes his head.

			daddy (cont'd)
	they'll put her in jail. the damn
	little fool might as well be naked.

			mother 
		(a wee mite worried)
	well, it is a little tight. but it
	isn't as bad as all that. no one
	will notice unless they have such
	thoughts in the first place.

			daddy 
	who doesn't have such thoughts? 
		(glances at wristwatch)
	we'd better get going.

			mother 
	you're not having lunch?

			daddy 
	just half-a-cup of coffee. i never
	eat, darlin', you know that. not
	eating and reverse insomnia are my
	curses. let's go, rose, you and
	brother, let's hit the road.

			mother 
	rose, you and brother wait in the
	car. i want to speak for a moment
	lo mr. hillyer.

			rose 
	yes, ma'am.

			mother 
	doll, you and waski run on, too.

