int. hillyer home buddy's bedroom - night

a shot of buddy at night in his small bedroom.

he wears a rather skimpy old-fashioned nightshirt that comes
midway between his hips and knees. at the moment he is
finishing brushing his teeth at the bureau, using an old
fashioned water pitcher and bowl. the camera follows as he
walks across the room in the light of the lamp by his bed. he
looks around cautiously, then picks up the mattress of his
bed. he pushes it far back and we see springs. he takes out a
small "book" or pamphlet and stares gravely at it.

close-up: the front cover of the pamphlet. we see the overall
title: little dirty comic books. and beneath it: blondie and
dagwood. and beneath that, in smaller letters: "mr. dithers
comes to dinner -- and how!" we see buddy's hands in the
shot, and he opens the pamphlet and we catch enough of a
glimpse of the thing to know it is pretty awful -- a drawing
maybe of "blondie" stark naked with a finger in her mouth
going, "tee-hee!"

on buddy, as he stares down with grave intentness at the
little dirty comic book. slyly now, he retraces his steps to
the bureau and takes out a flashlight. he goes back to the
bed, switches off the lamp, gets in the bed and turns on the
flashlight and pulls the covers over his head. we hear a
faint sound on the track and buddy suddenly yanks back the
covers, puts the flashlight on the table by the bed and
throws the little dirty comic book under the bed. he lies on
pillow and pretends he's asleep, and we hear the door of his
room open and a creaking on the floor.

another angle, on a weepy rose in a very thin nightgown. the
shot is from below as buddy might see her as she stands over
his bed. she looks very lonely and unhappy and is half
crying.

			rose 
	buddy... are you asleep?

another angle, on both of them. buddy stares at her in
surprise. it is dim in the room, but we can see them in the
moonlight.

			buddy
	no, i'm awake. what's the matter?

			rose 
	buddy, i am wandering in a
	wilderness, lost. 
		(sits glumly on edge of
		 bed)
	i just feel awful. do you mind if i
	get in bed with you for a little
	while?

			buddy 
	well, all right.

another angle, on rose and buddy in the bed in the moonlight.
it is all innocent enough, buddy is a child and rose
obviously has no lewd intent in getting into his bed. she
lies back on a pillow staring up at the ceiling and smoking a
cigarette.

			rose 
	i thought i'd go crazy back there
	in that room all by myself with
	nobody to talk to. as a child, i
	never had no room all to myself, we
	were awful poor. buddy... i have
	got a confession to make.

			buddy 
	what is it, rose?

			rose 
	it's so terrible i can't tell you.
	oh, buddy, you don't know how it
	hurts to have a broken heart, what
	a terrible feeling it is, and i've
	had a broken heart so many times.
	men, i don't understand them, i
	can't figure them out and they
	break my heart, that's all. i can't
	find mr. right, buddy, i can't find
	him no matter how hard i look, all
	i find is a whole pile of mr.
	wrongs. but this is the worst ever
	because it wasn't his fault. it was
	my fault, oh yes, my fault, i was
	bad -- oh god, i was bad, you
	wouldn't believe how bad i was.

			buddy 
		(a little smile)
	what'd you do, rose?

			rose 
	buddy, i was horrible. i can't tell
	you who it was, but do you know
	what i did? i sat on his lap and
	got ahold of him and wiggled and
	wiggled my ass on him and was
	worse'n you could know, a child
	like you. why, i let one of my tits
	fall out deliberate on purpose and
	practically smack him in the face
	with it and i let my dern skirt
	come up so he could see my
	drawers... 
		(pauses, realizes this
		 isn't too dignified)
	but to get back serious to what i
	was sayin', it is not only, buddy,
	the loss of him but my own bad
	behavior what bothers me so...

			buddy 
	you were pretty bad, huh?

			rose 
	why, it has just made me ill,
	buddy. i'm sick. i don't want to
	eat nothin', i don't, and me i got
	a good appetite, that ain't nat'ral
	for me. i'm ill.

			buddy
		(slyly, pretends he
		 doesn't know)
	but, rose, what is the cause of it
	all?

			rose
	promise not to tell doll? -- or
	nobody? buddy, it's your daddy! i'm
	so much in love with him i am out
	of my mind!

			buddy
	but, rose, how could such a thing
	as that happen?

			rose
	i fell madly in love with him when
	he called me rosebud. you know that
	first day when i come and he said i
	looked graceful like a capital
	letter s and called me rosebud? i
	fell madly in love with that man
	right then.
		(sighs tragically)
	but it's a lost love, buddy. he's a
	good man and won't have nothin' to
	do with me.

another angle, on rose and buddy in the bed. buddy has
propped on an elbow and is staring down at her breasts in the
moonlight -- we see the soft notch between her breasts in the
open v of her thin nightgown. she is completely unself
conscious with him.

			buddy 
		(casually)
	can i touch you here?

before she can answer, he touches her breast with his finger
through her nightgown.

			buddy (cont'd)
	hmmm, it's soft. it's awful soft.

			rose 
		(casually, doesn't object)
	what did you expect?

			buddy 
	well, i thought they were more like
	a cantaloupe.

			rose 
	ha ha ha, that's some idea, a
	cantaloupe.

			buddy 
		(touches her breast more
		 boldly, his hand outside
		 the nightgown)
	there's some kind of gristle in it,
	though.

			rose 
	buddy, quit that, you're just a
	child, you're not supposed to be
	interested in such things.

			buddy 
	actually, i am, though.

			rose 
		(dreamily, thinking of
		 daddy as she smokes
		 cigarette and stares up
		 at the ceiling)
	you know, that daddy of yours is
	the funniest man, the things he
	says, you never know what's going
	to come out of his mouth next.

			buddy
	can i put my hand inside your
	nightgown, rose?

			rose 
	no, you can't. and i'll tell you
	this -- he scares me. as kind as he
	is, he scares me. you can't fool
	around with him, not with that man.
	and, boy, i sure better not try
	nothin' like that with him again,
	he'll fire me.

			buddy
	rose, can't i see what the nipple
	on it is like?

			rose
		(frowns)
	buddy, what's come over you? a
	child like you, askin' such things.

			buddy
	but i'm curious, rose.

puts his hand in her nightgown.

			rose 
	buddy, get your hand offa me! quit
	it, get you hand away...

takes his wrist.

			buddy 
	just for a second. please, rose,
	what's the harm?

			rose 
		(gently)
	buddy, you don't realize it but
	what you're doing isn't nice.

			buddy 
	aw, come on, rose, i want to see
	what the nipple on it is like.

			rose 
	you don' t need to know that. it's
	none of your business.

			buddy 
	aw, be a good sport, rose. 
		(sweetly, almost sugarily)
	you like me, don't you? i like you
	a lot.

