int. moria caverns -- day

gandalf turns angrily on pippin.

                      gandalf
                (angry)
            fool of a took! throw yourself in next
            time and rid us of your stupidity!

angle on:    pippin, chastened.

they fall silent. a low rolling boom rises from the depths
below...growing louder...boom...boom...as if the caverns of
moria were turned into a vast drum. a great horn blasts
nearby...answering horns ... running feet...harsh cries...
sam's eyes glance at frodo's belt...

                       sam
                (worried)
            mr. frodo!



                                                     (continued)

continued:


frodo looks down. a cold blue glow is emanating from sting's
scabbard! frodo draws the sword...and stares at its glowing
blade!

                     legolas
          orcs !

                    aragorn
              (to the hobbits)
          get back! stay close to gandalf.

aragorn and boromir slam and wedge the doors. boromir
catches sight of something; he turns to aragorn with shock in
his eyes.

                    boromir
          they have a cave troll!

gimli snatches up two rusty dwarf axes and leaps onto the
tomb.

                    gimli
              (yelling)
          let them come! there is one dwarf yet in
          moria who still draws breath!

boom! the door bursts open in a shower of wood fragments,
and 20 goblins charge into the tomb, followed by a huge cave
troll! gimli ducks a blow and immediately buries his axes in
2 goblin helmets. aragorn and boromir wade into the mass of
goblins with their swords. legolas fires deadly arrows into
goblin throats, desperately trying to shield the hobbits!
gandalf is clutching his sword and joins in the battle! the
cave troll is sweeping his club at aragorn...who stumbles
backwards...the huge club descends for the killing
blow...suddenly, in a flash of steel, boromir's long sword
slices into the scaly arm of the troll; it rears back,
spewing green blood! sam is backing up against a wall...a
sword in one hand, a saucepan in the other. in desperation
he swings wildly at a goblin with a saucepan! it keels
over...sam looks surprised. he wallops another goblin and it
too, drops.

                    sam
          i think i'm getting the hang of this.

the cave troll lunges forward, thrusting at frodo's chest
with his spear.

                     frodo
          aragorn!   aragorn!



                                                  (continued)

continued: (2)


sam screams as frodo is lifted off his feet by the spear tip
and slammed against the wall.

                    aragorn
              (shocked yell)
          frodo!!

the hobbits go crazy. sam slashes at the cave troll's knee,
bringing him down...merry and pippin jump on him...legolas
fires an arrow...and the cave troll topples, dead. aragorn
rushes to frodo's side as he slumps to the floor...frodo
appears to be dead. close on: gandalf, aragorn, hobbits
looking horrified... suddenly frodo coughs...takes a huge
breath.

                    sam
          he's alive!

                    frodo
          i'm alright. i'm not hurt.

                    aragorn
          you should be dead. that spear would've
          skewered a wild boar!

                    gandalf
          i think there's more to this hobbit than
          meets the eye.

frodo open his shirt to reveal the mithril vest.   the troll
spear did not pierce the mithril."

                    gimli
          mithril! you are full of surprises,
          master baggins.

boom. boom. boom     the sound of the drums rings out again!
gandalf turns to the others.

                    gandalf
          to the bridge of khazad-dum!

                                                         cut to:

