ext. parth galen hillside -- day

frodo is darting down the steep hillside as heave feet
thunder down behind him.

                       sam
          mr. frodo!

sam looks around for frodo. close on: lurtz ordering his
uruks.

                     lurtz
          find the halflings ... find the
          halflings!

frodo stumbles and falls...quickly he crawls behind a
tree...above him the sound of uruk-hai crashing through the
forest rings out.

                    merry (o.s.)
              (urgent whisper)
          frodo!

frodo turns to see merry and pippin hidden in a hollow, a few
feet away.

                    merry (cont'd)
          hide here, quick!

                       pippin
          come on...

frodo looks at his friends... slowly shakes his head, a great
sadness in his eyes...

                    pippin (cont'd)
          what's he doing?

                                                 (continued)

continued:


merry's eyes meet frodo's.        understanding.

                    merry
              (softly)
          he's leaving.

                        pippin
          no!

pippin stands and makes a move toward frodo...merry grabs at
his arm.

                        merry
          pippin!

the echo of boromir's horn reaches aragorn, legolas, and
gimli...they are battling their way down the slopes towards
the lake.

                    legolas
          the horn of gondor!

                        aragorn
          boromir!

aragorn desperately slashes his way towards boromir, felling
uruk-hai in his path...while legolas and gimli fight a rear
guard action. many uruk-hai fall to boromir's sword as he
tries to protect merry and pippin...

                        boromir
          run!   run!

lurtz takes aim. a black arrow suddenly thuds into boromir's
chest. amazingly, boromir continues fighting, but another
arrow...and another, brings him to his knees. merry and
pippin are scooped off their feet by uruk-hai.

                        merry & pippin
          aaaaagh!      boromir! boromir!

lurtz aims his bow at boromir's heart... suddenly aragorn
charges at him, smashing the bow with his sword. they lock
into a deadly battle. aragorn cuts lurtz down and races
towards boromir, who lies slumped against a tree...uruk-hai
arrows sticking out of his chest. at least 20 dead uruk-hai
lie heaped around boromir. his horn lies at his feet...cloven
in two.

                    boromir
              (painful gasp)
          they took the little ones...
                    (more)

                                                   (continued)

continued: (2)
                    boromir (cont'd)
          aragorn quickly tries to staunch the flow
          of blood from boromir's shoulder.

                    boromir (cont'd)
              (panicked)
          frodo...where is frodo?

                    aragorn
          i let frodo go.

boromir holds aragorn's gaze.

                    boromir
          then you did what i could not.   i tried
          to take the ring from him.

                    aragorn
          the ring is beyond our reach now.

                    boromir
          forgive me, i did not see..i have failed
          you all.

                    aragorn
          no, boromir. you fought bravely. you
          have kept your honor. aragorn tries to
          bind boromir's wound.

                    boromir
          leave it! it is over...the world of men
          will fall and all will come to darkness
          and my city to ruin..aragorn..

                    aragorn
          i do not know what strength is in my
          blood, but i swear to you... i will not
          let the white city fall, nor your people
          fail...

                    boromir
          our people...our people...

aragorn places boromir's sword in his hand.   boromir's
fingers tighten around the hilt.

                    boromir (cont'd)
          i would have followed you, my
          brother...my captain, my king. aragorn
          lays boromir down. he is dead.

                    aragorn
          be at peace, son of gondor. aragorn bends
          and kisses boromir's forehead.
                    (more)

                                                     (continued)

continued: (3)
                     aragorn (cont'd)
           legolas and gimli appear behind
           him...aragorn stands.

                     aragorn (cont'd)
           they will look for his coming from the
           white tower...but he will not return.

