int. council chamber, rivendell -- day

elrond addresses the council...

                    elrond
          strangers from distant lands ... friends
          of old. you have been summoned here to
          answer the threat of mordor. middle-earth
          stands upon the brink of destruction.
          none can escape it. you will unite...or
          you will fall. each race is bound to this
          fate...this one doom...

frodo sits amongst a council of free-peoples of middle earth,
elrond stands before them, addressing gandalf, strider,
legolas, and 20 other elves, dwarves, and men.

                    elrond (cont'd)
          bring forth the ring, frodo.

frodo steps forward and moves towards a stone plinth. he
places the ring on the plinth and returns to his seat.

                    boromir
              (shocked)
          so it is true!

                    legolas
              (disbelief)
          sauron's ring! the ring of power!

                                                    (continued)

continued:


                     gimli
              (grim)
          the doom of man!

                    boromir
          it is a gift...a gift to the foes of
          mordor! why not use this ring? long has
          my father, the steward of gondor, held
          the forces of mordor at bay...by the
          blood of our people are your lands kept
          safe. give gondor the weapon of the
          enemy...let us use it against him!

                    strider
          you cannot wield it. none of us can.
          the one ring answers to sauron alone...it
          has no other master. boromir turns and
          looks at strider, coolly.

                    boromir
          and what would a ranger know of this
          matter?

strider says nothing and boromir turns away dismissively.
legolas stands...

                    legolas
          this is no mere ranger. he is aragorn,
          son of arathorn. you owe him your
          allegiance.

frodo looks at strider questioningly...boromir turns sharply.

                    boromir
              (quiet disbelief)
          aragorn? this is isildur's heir?

                    legolas
          and heir to the throne of gondor.

                    aragorn
              (elvish: with subtitles)
          havo dad, legolas...sit down, legolas..

                    boromir
          gondor needs no king.

                    gandalf
          aragorn is right...we cannot use it.

                    elrond
          you have only one choice..the ring must
          be destroyed.

                                                    (continued)

continued: (2)


the hum of the ring seems to grow louder in frodo's ears.
gimli suddenly stands, excited.

                    gimli
          then...what are we waiting for?

gimli suddenly rushes forward! he swings his axe down on the
ring. the axe shatters with a deafening crack! gimli falls
backwards, staring in disbelief at the ring...unharmed! frodo
winces as an angry image of the fiery eye hits him! he slumps
in this chair, clutching his forehead. gandalf looks at him
with concern.

                    elrond
          the ring cannot be destroyed, gimli, son
          of gloin, by any craft that we

                    elrond (cont'd)
          here possess. the ring was made in the
          fires of mount doom...only there can it
          be unmade. it must be taken deep into
          mordor, and cast back into the fiery
          chasm from whence it came. one of you
          must do this.

stunned silence...the council sits with downcast eyes, as if
a great dread has descended on them. boromir addresses the
council in a quiet voice

                    boromir
          one does not simply walk into mordor. its
          black gates are guarded by more than just
          orcs. there is evil there that does not
          sleep and the great eye is ever watchful.
          it is a barren wasteland, riddled with
          fire and ash and dust...the very air you
          breathe is a poisonous fume. not with
          ten thousand men could you do this. it
          is folly.

                    legolas
          have you heard nothing lord elrond has
          said? the ring must be destroyed.

                    gimli
          and i suppose you think you're the one to
          do it?

                    boromir
          and if we fail, what then? what happens
          when sauron takes back what is his?

gimli leaps to his feet!

                                                    (continued)

continued: (3)


                    gimli
          i will be dead before i see the ring in
          the hands of an elf! a storm of argument
          erupts around the room. close on:
          frodo...sound disappears as he watches in
          slow

motion...the angry faces, the shaking fists, the accusatory
fingers, his eyes move across to the ring...the hum grows
louder in his head.

                    gimli (cont'd)
              (shouting)
          never trust an elf!

close on: the ring fills the screen...streams of blood flow
across the surface... flames flicker within the gold band.

                    gandalf
          do you not understand? while we    bicker
          among ourselves, sauron's power   grows!
          no one will escape it. you will   all be
          destroyed, your homes burnt and   your
          families put to the sword!

close on: frodo...breathing rapidly, caught in the grip of
his hideous vision. with a huge effort or will, frodo tears
his gaze upon the ring. frodo suddenly stands...he speaks in
a strong, clear voice.

                    frodo
          i will take it...i will take it...i will
          take the ring to mordor.

sudden silence...frodo looks around the room at the astounded
faces.

                    frodo (cont'd)
              (quietly)
          though...i do not know the way. gandalf
          rises to his feet.

                    gandalf
          i will help you bear this burden, frodo
          baggins, as long as it is yours to bear.

                    aragorn
          if, by my life or death, i can protect
          you, i will.
              (kneels before frodo)
          ...you have my sword. aragorn steps
          forward...followed by legolas and gimli.


                                                      (continued)

continued: (4)


                    legolas
          and you have my bow.

                    gimli
          and my axe.

boromir looks at them all then walks towards frodo.

                    boromir
          you carry the fate of us all, little one.

boromir looks towards elrond and gandalf.

                    boromir (cont'd)
          if this is indeed the will of the
          council, then gondor will see it done.

frodo stares in wonder as the greatest fighters in all middle
earth stand at his side.

                    sam
              (unseen)
          here!

a sudden noise...sam pops up from behind a bush!

                    sam (cont'd)
          mr. frodo's not gong anywhere without me.

                    elrond
          no, indeed...it is hardly possible to
          separate you...even when he is summoned
          to a secret council and you are not.

merry and pippin jump up from behind another bush!

                    merry
          oi! we're coming too! you'll have to
          send us home tied up in a sack to stop
          us.

                    pippin
          anyway...you need people of intelligence
          on this sort of
          mission...quest...thing...

                    merry
          well, that rules you out, pip.




elrond surveys the group

                    elrond
              (thoughtfully)
          nine companions ... so be it.
              (announcing)
          you shall be the "fellowship of the ring"

                     pippin
          great.   where are we going?

                                                       cut to:

