ext.  roof

on the roof, trinity is running as agent brown rises over
the parapet, leading the cops in pursuit.

trinity begins to jump from one roof to the next, her
movements so clean, gliding in and out of each jump,
contrasted to the wild jumps of the cops.

agent brown, however, has the same unnatural grace.

the metal scream of an elevated train is heard and trinity
turns to it, racing for the back of the building.

the edge falls away into a wide back alley.  the next
building is over 40 feet away but trinity's face is
perfectly calm, staring at some point beyond the other
roof.

the cops slow, realizing they are about to see something
ugly as trinity drives at the edge, launching herself into
the air.

from above, the ground seems to flow beneath her as she
hangs in flight --

then hitting, somersaulting up, still running hard.

                         cop
          mutherfucker -- that's impossible!

they stare, slack-jawed, as agent brown duplicates the
move exactly, landing, rolling over a shoulder up onto one
knee.

just below the building are the rumbling tracks of riveted
steel.  the train screeches beneath her, a rattling blur
of gray metal.  trinity jumps, landing easily.

she looks back just as agent brown hurls through the air
barely reaching the last car --

agent brown stands, yanking out a gun.

trinity is running hard as bullets whistle past her head.

ahead she sees her only chance, 50 feet beyond the point
where the train has begun to turn, there is --

a window; a yellow glow in the midst of a dark brick
building.

trinity zeros in on it, running as hard as she can, her
speed compounded by the train.  the scream of the steel
rises as she nears the edge where the train rocks into the
turn.

