int. southern baptist church

bursting with everyone who knows jamie and landon -- every
kid in their high school, including eric, clay, belinda;
teachers, including ms. garber; mr. kelly; luis and isabel
and others from jefferson high; her father's congregation;
cynthia carter; dr. carter's new wife and their two kids;
neighbors; hospital staff and home nurses.

landon stands with his father by the altar.

the "wedding march" begins...

the double doors at the back of the church open. everyone
turns to look at the bride. gasps of joy and sadness.

landon's pov - jamie

flanked by a nurse and reverend sullivan. she's wearing
her lizzie dress from the play. it hangs loosely, but
still becomes her. she's a beautiful bride.

back to scene

landon swells with pride.

jamie smiles. then, leaning on her father, she slowly
makes her way down the aisle.

in the pews -- few dry eyes follow her.

jamie -- halfway -- stops to rest and catch her breath. a
moment later, she and her father continue.

a long, difficult walk. a walk to remember.

at altar

the nurse rolls a wheelchair up as jamie and her father
near.

applause breaks out as jamie reaches landon's side.

jamie sits. exhausted.

landon kneels to be the same height as jamie in her chair.

pause. dr. carter kneels. showing solidarity with his
son.

reverend sullivan, standing, leans down to kiss jamie's
cheek. trying to keep his emotions in check.

landon and jamie's pov

reverend sullivan towering over them.

back to scene

reverend sullivan kneels, too.

jamie takes landon's hand in her right hand, her father's
hand in her left. linking the three together.

the congregation silences.

reverend sullivan looks up from his bible. struggling.

                         rev. sullivan
               as a father, i'm supposed to give
               away my daughter. but i can no
               more give jamie away than i can
               give away my heart. but i can let
               another share in the joy she has
               given me. may god's blessings be
               with you both.

he reaches out, offering a hand to landon. completing the
circle.

                         rev. sullivan
               landon, repeat after me. do you
               take...

as words are spoken and vows and rings exchanged, the
camera moves across the faces of those at the altar --
jamie, landon, dr. carter.

to the first row of the congregation -- cynthia carter,
josh, eric, clay.

then back row by row as the reverend begins reading a
passage from the book jamie's mother made for her. his
voice soft and melodious, like a poet reading his own
work.

                         rev. sullivan (o.s.)
               'love is always patient and kind.
               it is never jealous. love is
               never boastful or conceited. it
               is never rude or selfish. it does
               not take offense and is not
               resentful. love takes no pleasure
               in other people's sins, but
               delights in the truth. it is
               always ready to excuse, to trust,
               to hope, and to endure whatever
               comes...'

and the camera moves out the double doors to find...

parsonage

in a different season. winter.

up the front steps and into...

living room (present day)

as it is now, in present day.

the nurse disappears, leaving landon carter, 33, waiting.
looking at a framed photo of jamie as lizzie in the
rainmaker...

the nurse returns, helping an old man as he shuffles in.
reverend sullivan. he's stooped, thin, balding. his skin
parchment thin.

the two men embrace. stiff, uncomfortable, uncertain.

                         rev. sullivan
               you've been well?

                         landon
               yes. you?

                         rev. sullivan
               getting by.

pause. why is he here? the reverend waits.

                         landon
                    (fumbling)
               i'm -- i'm returning something.

he twists the ring on his finger. removes it.

                         landon
               this belongs to you.

he gives his wedding ring to the reverend. pause. landon
searches for something meaningful to say.

                         landon

               she taught me -- everything. she
               saved my life.

the reverend turns away, overcome with sadness. realizing
now why landon has come.

                         rev. sullivan
               you're marrying again.

                         landon
               yes.

                         rev. sullivan
               jamie wanted that. she told me.

landon is grateful to know this. he makes a move to go.
then turns back.

                         landon
               i'm sorry she never got her
               miracle.

                         rev. sullivan
               she did. it was you.

landon, deeply touched, embraces the old man again.
warmly, fully. two men still grieving, saying good-bye.

                         adult landon (v.o.)
               jamie once said when you're
               feeling love, you're also feeling
               god.

