int. auditorium

a full house. parents, teachers, students, churchgoers,
booster club and rotary members.

on stage

the set is a wealthy midwestern ranch house of the 1950s.
eddie and two other boys play other characters. the
play's underway...

stage left

landon watches, dressed as bill starbuck in a nicely
fitted suit. waiting for his entrance.

landon's pov - stage

                         boy #1
                    (as h.c., the father)
               'then why don't you talk to her?'

                         eddie
                    (as jim)
               'because if we do, she'll think
               we're trying to get rid of her.'

                         boy #1
                    (as h.c., the father)
               'she'll sure think the same if i
               do it. you're her father and
               comes a time when a father's gotta
               mention.'

back to scene

from stage right, jamie makes her entrance as lizzie. a
collective gasp from the audience.

landon's pov

jamie, wearing makeup, a dress that clings, her hair
pulled back.

back to scene

landon can't take his eyes off her.

                         jamie
                    (as lizzie)
               'morning, pop. boys. i dreamed
               we had a rain, rain coming down in
               sheets! lightning flashed,
               thunder rolled up and down the
               canyon like a kid with a big
               drum!'

audience

reverend sullivan -- enraptured. principal kelly --
hopeful. cynthia carter -- uncertain. clay, eric, and
belinda -- rocking in their seats, snickering.

                         jamie
                    (as lizzie)
               'i know why you sent me to
               sweetriver. six boys in that
               family. the first three days, i
               stayed in my room.'

                         boy #2
                    (as noah, the
                    brother)
               'what'd you do that for?'

back of auditorium

a well-dressed man, dr. jonathan carter, landon's father,
slips in and takes a seat a couple of rows behind cynthia.

                         jamie (o.s.)
                    (as lizzie)
               'i knew what i was there for and
               they knew it, too!'

back of auditorium - later

dr. carter hangs on every word. others sit on the edge of
their seats. even clay, eric, and belinda. belinda leans
forward to take a photo.

belinda's pov through camera lens

as she zooms -- landon and jamie on stage, growing larger.

on stage

landon, jamie, and the three boys.

on stage - landon

is starbuck.

                         landon
                    (as starbuck,
                    genuine)
               '... you'll look in that mirror
               and you'll be more than pretty.
               you'll be beautiful. look at me.
               tell me what you see!'

jamie looks. she sees something in his eyes she hasn't
seen in them before. love.

                         jamie
                    (as lizzie, choked
                    up)
               'is it really me?'

landon's pov

jamie, her face lovely. her eyes shining, radiating,
looking directly at him.

back to scene

landon is dumbstruck.

                         landon
                    (as starbuck,
                    heartfelt)
               'yes.
                    (beat)
               you're beautiful.'

landon changes the line and nails it. surprising himself.
surprising her. they both know it's sincere. a moment
passes. her stomach churns with anticipation.

he leans in. she closes her eyes. they kiss. gently,
genuinely. when jamie opens her eyes, they are filled
with tears.

the curtain crashes down. end of act two.

clapping from the other side of the curtain. landon tries
to meet jamie's gaze. but she's looking at the floor.

audience

principal kelly, pleased. cynthia carter, proud. clay
and eric, surprised. reverend sullivan, frowning,
concerned. belinda's face is cold, hard.

