http://www.fortunecity.com/tattooine/clarke/38/scripts/IAmLegend.txt

















                          I AM LEGEND

                              by

                          John Logan






























                                           September 8, 1997







          What's so surprising that I crawl.
          I descended from the worm just like you.
          What's so surprising that I eat glass
          and dance on fire.

                     --Felix Morisseau-Leroy



FADE IN:

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - DESERT - DAY

Rainfall.  Violent and unrelenting.

The rain pounds a fearsome rhythm on the windows of a motel
room.

ROBERT NEVILLE is on the phone, pacing, waiting.  Tense.

Neville is a fit, handsome and methodical man.  He is also,
as we shall see, a very resourceful man.

As he paces we see he is in a clean motel room, a breakfast
tray is on a table.  We see a briefcase open on the desk next
to long plastic tubes for blueprints.

Finally:

                     NEVILLE
               (on phone)
          Yes, Dr. Madden this is Robert
          Neville, I... I understand that...
          my wife, Virginia Neville is...
          yes...
               (a flash of concern
                crosses his face)
          ... I'll be there in the morning.

He hangs up.

He hesitates for a moment, unsure of exactly what to do next.

Then he grabs his briefcase and blueprint tubes and goes.

EXT.  DESERT CONSTRUCTION SITE - DAY

The almost blinding downpour allows us a strange view of a
large industrial construction site in the desert.  Huge
earth-moving machines, cranes and bulldozers dot the sodden
landscape.

TITLE:  FALL 1998

We see day laborers and construction workers huddling under
the gigantic machines as they try to stay out of the rain,
packed together like tiny animals in the shadow of the
dinosaurs.

But there is something immediately wrong about this scene.

There should be more workers on a project this big.

INT.  CONSTRUCTION SHED - DAY

Neville is standing in the high-tech construction shed.  He
is the architect of this project.

Neville stands with a grave expression, his arms folded,
watching TV.

His Chief Engineer, DOMINGO, sits nearby and eats a sandwich.

On the TV:

A LOCAL WASHINGTON REPORTER is standing in front of the White
House, the flag at half mast:

                     LOCAL WASHINGTON REPORTER
          The First Lady was buried in a brief
          ceremony at Arlington National
          Cemetery and then the President and
          the remaining members of the Cabinet
          met with the CDC Emergency Response
          Team to coordinate...

The CONSTRUCTION FOREMAN enters, shaking off rain, and goes
to Domingo:

                     FOREMAN
          Dom, I gotta know where to assign
          the men.  We don't have enough to do
          both the water conduits and the --

                     DOMINGO
               (to Neville)
          Bob?

Neville doesn't turn from the TV.

                     DOMINGO
               (to Foreman)
          I'll be right out.

                     FOREMAN
          We're never gonna meet the contract
          deadline if we don't --

                     DOMINGO
          Go on, I'll be right out.

The Foreman goes.

                     DOMINGO
          Bob?

Neville turns off the TV.  The only sound is the pounding of
the rain.

Neville's back is to Domingo.

A silent pause.

Then:

                     DOMINGO
               (gently)
          She's going to be fine, Bob.

Neville finally turns.

                     NEVILLE
          I'm going home.

INT.  NEVILLE'S JEEP - DESERT - NIGHT

Rain batters the windscreen.

Through the black tempest Neville can just make out the razor
of highway slicing through the desert.

The radio is on:

                     NEWSCASTER (V.O.)
          FEMA and the Red Cross have centered
          their activities on centers of mass
          population.  New York, Chicago,
          Atlanta and Los Angeles have already
          been declared federal disaster areas
          and the Centers for Disease Control
          is preparing quarantine protocols
          for --

Neville switches the radio off and presses the gas, speeding
faster through the rain.

EXT.  GAS STATION - DESERT - NIGHT

The downpour continues as Neville pulls into a small gas
station by the highway.

Huge floodlights illuminate the station with an eerie
blue/white, making it a lonely oasis in the pitch black.

Absolute emptiness in the black desert around the station.

Neville climbs from the jeep as an OLD MAN emerges from the
station and goes to him.

                     OLD MAN
          Need some gas?

                     NEVILLE
          Please.

                     OLD MAN
          Only got one kind.

                     NEVILLE
          That's fine.

Neville stands by the jeep as the Old Man begins pumping the
gas.

A beat.

                     NEVILLE
          Hell of a night.

                     OLD MAN
               (smiles vaguely)
          You got that right.

There is something odd about this Old Man, an ephemeral
something, something Neville can't quite put his finger on.
Something strange.  Perhaps something in the eyes.

The only immediately unusual thing about him is that he is
very, very pale.  His skin is white in the harsh floodlights.

                     OLD MAN
          So, what do you do?

                     NEVILLE
          I'm am architect.  I'm working on a
          site back in --

                     OLD MAN
          You built things.

                     NEVILLE
          I guess you could say that.

The Old Man is watching him, rather intently, as he pumps the
gas.

The Old Man's stare is making Neville just a tad
uncomfortable.

                     NEVILLE
          Bathroom?

                     OLD MAN
          Round back.

Neville goes.

We linger on the Old Man for a moment.

A drop of rain water trickles down his forehead, over his
eyebrow and straight down across his eye.  He does not blink.

Perhaps it is only a glass eye.

Perhaps it is something infinitely more peculiar.

INT.  BATHROOM - GAS STATION - NIGHT

Neville is washing his hands in the tiny gas station
bathroom.

He hears a sound over the running tap water -- a strange
sound, elliptical -- is it a coyote howling?  Something
mechanical?

He turns off the water.  Listens.  Nothing.

The lights suddenly snap off in the bathroom.

He steps from the bathroom...

EXT.  GAS STATION - DESERT - NIGHT

Into darkness.

The overhead floodlight are off.

He jogs through the rain to the front of the station.  The
lights in the station are also out.

                     NEVILLE
               (calling out over the
                rain)
          Hey!

No answer.

                     NEVILLE
               (calling out)
          Hello -- are you there?!  Hello?!

Nothing.  The station is deserted.  The Old Man is nowhere to
be seen.

Neville shakes his head and pulls a twenty from his wallet,
leaves it on the front door of the station and then goes to
the jeep.

He takes one last look around the empty station.

                     NEVILLE
               (calling out)
          Hello...?!

Nothing.

He climbs into the jeep.  Disquieted.

INT.  HOSPITAL LOBBY - DAY

Neville is moving through the lobby of a busy hospital.  An
unusual amount of activity.  He goes to a RECEPTIONIST at the
front desk.

                     NEVILLE
          Virginia Neville.

The receptionist checks her computer:

                     RECEPTIONIST
          Neville... Neville...
               (she stops)
          ... oh -- um -- she's... she's up on
          six --

                     NEVILLE
          Thanks.

He turns and heads to the elevators.

                     RECEPTIONIST
          But you can't -- you can't --

Too late, he is in the elevator.

INT.  HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - 6TH FLOOR - DAY

Neville emerges on the Sixth Floor.  Even more unusual
activity here.  He can see orderlies pushing patients on
gurneys and overworked doctors scurrying here and there.

He sees that one of the corridors has been sealed with a
strip of yellow CDC quarantine tape.

He goes to the busy Nurses' Station.

                     NEVILLE
          I'm here to see Virginia Neville.

A tired NURSE glances up.

                     NURSE
          You're not supposed to be here.

Neville notices that a NATIONAL GUARDSMAN is sitting in a
room behind the Nurses' Station, a machine gun rests at his
side.  He is staring at Neville.

                     NEVILLE
          I need to see Dr. Madden.

                     NURSE
          I'm sorry, you'll have to wait
          downstairs --

                     NEVILLE
          I'm not going to wait downstairs.  I
          want to see my wife.

The National Guardsman stands and begins walking to them,
sensing trouble.

                     NURSE
               (to a passing doctor)
          Dr. Madden, this man --

                     NEVILLE
               (turning to Dr. Madden)
          Dr. Madden, I'm Robert Neville, we
          talked yesterday, my wife --

                     NATIONAL GUARDSMAN
          Is there a problem here?

                     DR. MADDEN
          No, no problem.

The Guardsman returns to his post as DR. MADDEN walks away,
flipping through a stack of medical charts.  Dr. Madden is in
his 60's, absolutely exhausted and preoccupied.

Neville follows him:

                     NEVILLE
          Where's my wife?

                     DR. MADDEN
          You have to go downstairs, I'll call
          you when --

                     NEVILLE
          Where is my wife?

Dr. Madden finally stops and turns to him:

                     DR. MADDEN
          Look, I have two hundred patients in
          this ward alone.  I'll be getting to
          your wife on my next rotation.
          Until then --

                     NEVILLE
               (firmly)
          Is she all right?

A beat.

Dr. Madden does not look him in the eye.

                     DR. MADDEN
          Please go downstairs to the lobby
          and I'll call in about four hours.

He goes.

Neville stands for a moment.

He notes that the National Guardsman is busy on the phone and
the Nurse is searching through a file cabinet.

He quickly goes to the corridor with the yellow CDC
quarantine tape and slips under it...

INT.  CORRIDOR - QUARANTINE WARDS - DAY

He moves down the corridor and glances through the windows
into the quarantine wards.

He sees patients everywhere.  They are haggard, pale and
drained.  Many on IVs.  All the wards he passes are jammed
with a chaos of gurneys and patients and overworked doctors.
Everyone wears surgical gloves and masks.

A group of grim scientists troop past Neville in biological
contagion suits.

He finally stops, looking in the windows to one ward.  He
enters...

INT.  WARD - DAY

VIRGINIA is sitting on the edge of her bed.

She is normally a smart, pretty and sensible woman with a wry
sense of humor.  Currently, she in enervated.

She glances up and smiles.

                     NEVILLE
          We're going home.

INT.  HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - 6TH FLOOR - DAY

Neville is leading Virginia toward the elevators.

They encounter overworked Dr. Madden heading the other
direction.

                     DR. MADDEN
          Hold on, please.  Where are you
          going?

                     NEVILLE
          I'm taking her home.

A long beat as Dr. Madden looks at them.

Then, quietly:

                     DR. MADDEN
          That might be best.

EXT.  THE NEVILLE HOME - DAY

The Neville's Palos Verdes home on the California coast is
spacious and pleasant.  A lovely view of the Pacific.  Birds
fly happily overhead.

It is an upscale suburban enclave much like any other.
Normal.

Neville emerges from the house and goes to the mailbox at the
end of the driveway.

Only then do we notice that the street appears absolutely
deserted.  A kid's bicycle lies abandoned on a neighbor's
yard as if the kid has just gone inside for lunch.  All the
lawns are a bit overgrown, the gardens untended.

Neville reaches into the mailbox.  Nothing.

He glances down the street.  Utterly normal but for the
overgrown yards and total lack of people.

INT.  THE NEVILLE HOME - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Virginia is sleeping.  Her breathing is labored.

A dinner tray lies untouched on the bed.

On the night stand we note a hand-held tape recorder and a
collection of cassette tapes.

Neville enters and watches Virginia sleep for a moment.

Then he picks up the dinner tray and goes.

INT.  THE NEVILLE HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Neville is at the sink, washing the dishes from the tray.

A tapping sound -- close --

Neville jumps a bit, startled, and glances up --

A small starling is at the window over the sink.  It is
tapping on the glass relentlessly.

The bird stares in at him.

INT.  THE NEVILLE HOME - DEN - NIGHT

Neville is asleep on the sofa in front of the TV.

On the TV a Discovery Channel wildlife show is on.  We see a
water buffalo being dragged down by a pack of jackals.  The
jackals circle and strike without mercy and ravage the
buffalo.  The buffalo roars in impotent torment --

The TV image suddenly snaps to a test pattern.

Then snaps to a PLEASE STAND BY message.

We push in and in and in on the TV screen until the message
is nothing more than a grating, hissing field of pulsing
white dots...

Then the dots are grains of sand...

EXT.  DESERT - DAY

We are floating inches over a sea of sand, over an arid
desert landscape...

CREDITS as we continue to slowly float over the sand -- we
pass a side-winder rattlesnake undulating across the desert
-- we pass cacti and desert shrubs blooming with flowers...

As the CREDITS continue and we continue to float slowly over
the desert we become aware of a sound...

Distant, barely audible at first...

It sounds like bursts of radio static and something like
words -- the rhythms and cadences of speech but strange and
repetitive -- we cannot make out the speaker -- we cannot
make out the words -- just the static and the steady,
monotonous echo of something like language...

We finally stop floating and focus on a pair of scorpions
locked in mortal combat, their claws are fastened together in
the death struggle.  When fighting, scorpions will often stay
locked together like this, frozen, for hours.

End CREDITS.

EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - DAY

We are seeing the Los Angeles skyline from high in the
Hollywood Hills.

We see the outlines and forms of recognizable buildings in
the distance.  Nothing immediately peculiar about any of
this.  Just quiet.

A beautiful sunny morning.

TITLE:  WINTER 2002

A bird flutters close and lands on a wooden rail.  We seem to
be watching the bird through a window.  We note some grill
work and just a hint of razor wire on the rail.

Still, nothing too out of the ordinary.

The shrill bell of an old windup alarm clock suddenly
shatters the pristine silence.

The bird takes off.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - DAY

Through a long, dark corridor we see Neville sitting on the
edge of a bed.  He snaps the alarm clock off.

He rises and begins his day.

Neville moves from the bedroom and down some stairs to his
living room.  We see that his house is ultra-modern, huge and
meticulously clean.

We see that it is not the Palos Verdes house he shared with
Virginia.

The enormous picture windows in his living room boast a
sweeping and dramatic view of the LA skyline.  He does not
even look at it.

He passes an enormous wall of tech:  a huge TV, VCR and
hundreds of videos as well as a stereo unit with thousands of
CDs.  The tech unit takes up an entire wall of the living
room.

He presses a button on the stereo as he passes.

"GIMME SHELTER" by the Rolling Stones explodes from his
stereo as he goes about his morning...

--  Neville stalks down a long hallway.  The walls on both
    sides of the hallway are completely filled with
    bookcases.  He has neatly stacked books on the floor as
    well.

--  He walks outside to the spacious back courtyard.  We can
    glimpse the slopping and modern angles and contours of
    the house behind him.  Chickens roam the squawk around a
    large pen area.  He reaches through the chickens and
    collects some eggs.

--  We see him standing in his kitchen, drinking a cup of
    coffee.  One entire wall of the kitchen is filled with a
    huge street map of Los Angeles.  This is a collection of
    oversized pages from a plat book or ordinance survey that
    he has formed into a map.  He has covered the map with a
    sheet of clear plastic.  We see that he has written on
    the plastic with a grease pencil, dividing the city into
    eight sections.  One section, marked "SECTOR A," the
    downtown area, has almost been completely and neatly
    blocked out with hundreds of tiny black X's.  Little red,
    green and yellow marks denote various locations.

--  He opens a smaller map and looks at it.  This map shows
    the same downtown area, the same combination of X's.

--  He dresses for the day.  He pulls on a black Kevlar body
    suit that looks like a high-tech diving suit.  He straps
    a diver's knife to one ankle.  The suit is equipped with
    a number of pockets and pouches with velcro flaps.  He
    tucks the smaller map into one of the pouches.

--  Then he is in his garage, climbing into an enormous Range
    Rover.  In the garage we note a few gasoline and solar
    battery generators humming.  We also see the vague
    outline of a few vehicles covered in tarps.  Also his
    armory:  a large, standing tool cabinet he has refitted.
    It contains a number of identical machine guns and a
    large stock of explosives.

--  His Rover has been heavily modified to fit his needs.  It
    resembles a jeep outfitted for safari.  Jerry cans of
    gasoline are strapped to the top.  Wire mesh and heavy
    iron bars have been added.  Two spare tires.  A high-
    powered hunting rifle is in place behind the driver's
    seat.

--  He starts the engine and roars out of the garage.  He
    speeds along his driveway to a towering, white wall with
    double doors of stern metal.  He climbs out of the Rover
    and unlocks a number of locks and chains on the doors.
    He also pulls away a massive iron bolt like those on
    medieval castles.  He swings the doors open and drives
    through.

As he pulls away down his driveway to the street we finally
see the perspective and proportions of his chosen home.

The compound is high on a hill and white.  An impenetrable
concrete wall surrounds the entire estate.  Neville has
supplemented the wall with coils of razor-wire.  Above the
wall, we can see that the design of the house is modern and
sleek.

But most striking are the solar collecting panels.

Almost the entire roof is taken up with slanting and
shimmering photovoltaic panels that blaze in the sunlight.
We also see a few three-blade wind power rotors spinning
lazily.

"GIMME SHELTER" ends.

INT./ EXT.  ROVER - HILLS - DAY

He pulls the Rover onto the street outside his compound and
stops, the engine idling.  He looks down a long, twisting
road toward the city.

We note a picture of his wife, Virginia, fastened with a
rubber band to the sun visor.

We also see a number of hatch marks drawn on the roof of the
Rover above him.  He has counted up to about forty of
something.

He has a stopwatch dangling from the rearview mirror.  He
revs the powerful engine and then presses the start button on
the stopwatch -- and he floors it --

The Rover explodes down the hill -- it is every driver's
ultimate fantasy -- racing like crazy down a twisting,
mountainous road at top speed -- no fear of opposing traffic
-- Neville speeds from lane to lane, racing against the
stopwatch, trying to beat his best time -- the Rover careens
wildly around obstacles and hurtles through traffic lights
and flies over hills -- Neville enjoys the wild adrenaline
rush of pure speed -- he checks his time -- punches the gas
-- faster --

An abandoned tank is ahead of him at the bottom of the hill.

In a final burst of speed he screeches past the tank -- he
reaches up and stops the stopwatch -- he hollers and blows
his horn in joy -- his best time yet.

In the tank, two nesting white cranes are disturbed by the
horn -- they fly up from the tank's turret...

EXT.  LOS ANGELES - AERIAL - DAY

We travel up with the cranes as they soar up from the turret,
higher and higher...

Then we are sweeping with them above the city...

Neville's Rover disappears below and his horn echoes
strangely in the silent city as we soar with the cranes...

This is our first shocking wide view of the empty city.  It
is a breathtaking vista of desolation and ruin.

Los Angeles is a necropolis.

EXT.  OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

Neville pulls to a stop in front of an office building and
climbs out of the Rover.

At the top of the building a tall radio tower reaches up to
the perfect blue sky.

When he leaves the Rover he always carries a machine gun with
a high-powered flashlight clamped to the barrel.  He also has
a sidearm in a holster on his hip and the diver's knife
strapped to his ankle.

He grabs a jerry can of gas from the Rover and goes into the
office building...

INT.  KTZY RADIO STATION - DAY

He emerges from the emergency stairway at the 46th floor.  He
has climbed all the way so he is sweating and panting a bit.

He goes down a dark corridor and enters the KTZY radio
station.

A burst of sunlight.  Many windows.  The city outside.

Through the windows we can see that the station is at the top
of the building.  Neville has clearly been here before.
Boxes of electronic parts and technical manuals are piled
everywhere around the room.

A large radio broadcasting panel is foremost.  Neville has
hooked this panel to five large gas generators.  The
generators are humming with life, lights on the panel are
illuminated.

A reel-to-reel tape loop is running.

He switches on the speaker and his own voice fills the room:

                     NEVILLE (V.O.)
          ... tallest building downtown.  You
          can't miss it.

The loop repeats:

                     NEVILLE (V.O.)
          This is Robert Neville.  I am living
          in Los Angeles.  Rendezvous at the
          plaza in front of the Branson
          Building.  I'll check every three
          days at noon.  If you can't wait
          leave a sign.  It's the tallest
          building downtown.  You can't miss
          it.

The loop begins to repeat:

                     NEVILLE (V.O.)
          This is Robert Neville.  I am --

He switches the speaker off, satisfied, and then carefully
begins filling the generators with gas.

EXT.  GAS STATION - DAY

Neville pulls to a stop by a gas station.  He climbs out of
the Rover.

He ignores the gas pumps themselves and finds the underground
gas storage tank valve buried in the ground.

Neville unscrews the large valve and hauls it out.  He picks
up a pebble and tosses it into the underground gas tank.
Down and down and down.  He hears a metallic echo as it hits
the bottom of the tank.  Empty.

He removes the small map from the pouch on his suit and makes
a mark at the location.  Then he spray paints a large red
fluorescent "X" on the gas pumps.

Across the street from the gas station is a bank.  He walks
toward it and enters...

INT.  BANK - DAY

He glances around, dust and desolation.  He passes the
tellers' counters, desks and offices without a glance and
immediately heads down an inactive escalator in the center of
the bank.

As he descends he snaps on the flashlight affixed to his
machine gun.  The escalator leads down to the underground
vault and hallways.

He steps from the escalator and is wading through debris,
mostly paper, as he casts the beam from his machine gun light
around him.  He completely ignores the open vault and finds a
door marked "MAINTENANCE."  He opens the door and checks
inside, smiles.

Inside is a shelf full of light bulbs.  He takes an armful of
light bulbs and wades out through the debris.

Only then do we realize that the paper he has been wading
through is millions and millions of dollars -- a sea of cash.

EXT.  BANK - STREET - DAY

He emerges from the bank, spray paints a large green
fluorescent "X" on the front of the building and then loads
the light bulbs into the back of the Rover.

INT.  ROVER - STREET - DAY

He drives for a bit, scanning left and right for anything
promising.

Then he sees something.  He suddenly jams on his brakes and
the Rover screeches to a halt.  He backs up quickly and grabs
his machine gun.  He stops the Rover and aims the gun out the
window.  We have no idea what he is aiming at.

He squeezes off a short burst from his machine gun -- a toy
store window shatters -- he is blasting a huge stuffed,
annoying, smiley Barney dinosaur to bits.  He smiles and
grabs a marker and draws another hatch mark above his head.

He continues on his way, whistling the mind-numbing Barney
theme song.

EXT.  STREET - DAY

He drives for a bit and then slows, peering forward.

The decaying hull of a huge Sikorsky helicopter is crashed on
the street before him.

He hops out of the Rover and goes to the burnt out
helicopter.

He peers inside.  The charred, blackened remains of the two
pilots are still strapped to their seats.  He ignores the
remains and roots around in the debris of the cabin.  He
finds an automatic pistol -- the plastic grip melted off.  He
checks the mechanism.  It works.  He takes it.

He is walking back to the Rover when he sees something.

He quickly runs to the Rover and reaches in, removes a pair
of binoculars and peers through them:

About four blocks away, up a hill, he sees a herd of deer
meandering through an intersection of a wide street.

INT./ EXT.  ROVER - STREET - DAY

He is tearing through the streets -- spinning along at top
speed, swerving around anything in his path -- he zooms
around a corner to another street -- looking for a shortcut
-- sees it --

A commercial plaza is ahead -- he shoots across the street --
bangs up over the curb and tears across the sidewalk --
sending the Rover flying down a bank of wide pedestrian steps
-- he bounces and jolts down the stairs then spins across a
courtyard --

Ahead of him is a large commercial building with huge plate
glass windows -- he can see that the enormous lobby beyond
the windows extends to the next street --

He speeds toward the plate glass windows -- closer, closer --
he yanks his machine gun up and reaches out the driver's
window -- pointing it toward the glass --

At the last second before impact -- he FIRES -- a short burst
that blasts the plate glass to dust -- he speeds through the
shattered windows and into the lobby -- across the lobby,
between banks of elevators -- he races toward the set of
plate glass windows on the other side of the building --
blasts them and shoots through to the street --

He swerves up this street.

He slows as he nears the wide street the deer were on.

He unfastens the high-powered hunting rifle from behind him
and holds it ready on his lap.

The Rover crawls the last few feet and finally creeps to the
street...

EXT.  WILSHIRE BOULEVARD - DOWNTOWN - DAY

And we see it all.

We see scorched palm trees and shattered buildings; a
graveyard of cars and skeletons.  We recognize the landmarks
of the street and the deserted boulevard seems to stretch to
infinity.

It is staggering.

Neville is at the intersection of Normandie and Wilshire,
peering east.  The moorish towers of the Wilshire Christian
Church are directly to his left -- beyond that is the
monolithic Equitable Building -- and then the Gaylord
Building beyond that.

But Neville sees only the deer.  They are congregating in
front of the driveway leading to the old Ambassador Hotel and
Cocoanut Grove Nightclub.  They are lazily munching on the
grass that has invaded the street from the sidewalk and
broken through the asphalt.

The deer pay no mind to Neville, who is about two blocks
away.

He cautiously opens his door, and very slowly, climbs out of
the Rover.

Painted on an abandoned bus behind him is some graffiti from
the apocalypse, huge red letters:  HE IS COMING FOR YOU.
DREAM FAST.

He raises the rifle and aims.  Through his cross-hairs we can
see the deer closely.  He moves from deer to deer, finally
centering on a 250 pound buck.

Above the deer there is a huge rotating billboard, build of
triangular panels.  The rotating billboard was constructed to
turn to three different images.  Currently it shows an image
of Michael Jordan running.  It advertises a futuristic-
looking athletic shoe:  THE NIKE MILLENNIUM!  COMING IN 2000!

But some of the decaying panels have rotated in the wind out
of synch to the next image, so we see a strange mixture of
Michael Jordan and the next image:  a cheetah running.

Neville follows the buck in his cross-hairs.  His finger
tightens on the trigger --

Then, above the deer, one of the panels rotates in the breeze
-- it clanks into a new position -- the buck immediately
raises its head, alert -- Neville FIRES -- the sound of the
shot echoes bizarrely in the dead city -- the buck lurches,
only winged -- the rest of the herd scatters -- the wounded
buck bolts --

The buck clatters down the driveway toward the Ambassador
Hotel --

Neville leaps into the Rover and tears the two blocks --
spins right into the Ambassador driveway -- speeds down the
driveway and screeches to a halt --

He jumps out and instantly raises his rifle following the
buck, the consummate hunter --

The buck leaps in panic toward the entrance of the
Ambassador --

Neville follows the buck -- he fires.

Neville lowers the rifle and approaches the buck cautiously.
It is dead.

He hoists it up on his shoulders and carries it back to the
Rover.  He tosses it with a thud on the hood.

He quickly begins lashing it to the hood of the Rover with
wire cable...

Later...

The deer carcass is now securely bound to the hood of the
Rover.  Neville leans against the Rover, gazing at the
Ambassador.

He checks his watch, he checks the sun.  Plenty of time.  He
decides to scavenge.

He grabs his machine gun and goes into the hotel...

INT.  AMBASSADOR HOTEL - LOBBY - DAY

He snaps on the flashlight affixed to his machine gun as he
goes into the lobby.  As he leaves the sunlight behind.

From the single light on Neville's gun this new world is
eerie and immediately threatening.  The rotting decor
swallows him up and the serpentine swirls and alcoves of the
lobby cast strange shadows as he proceeds.

He methodically swings his light back and forth as he makes
his way through the hotel.

He doesn't pay much attention to anything here.  He has a
destination in mind...

INT.  AMBASSADOR HOTEL - KITCHEN - DAY

He goes through a service corridor and into the kitchen.

The kitchen is mayhem, as if a tornado has swept through the
place.  He searches under rubble, through food storage bins
and pantries.  Nothing he wants.  Finally, he tosses aside
some tables and finds --

A human skeleton.  Stripped clean.  He glances at it for a
moment, then leans down.  Beneath the skeleton he sees
something.  He pushes the skeleton aside and picks up
something.  It is a jar of honey.  He smiles and puts the
honey into a pouch on his body suit.

INT.  AMBASSADOR HOTEL - COCOANUT GROVE - DAY

He enters the once grand Cocoanut Grove Nightclub.

He glances at the decaying movie star and celebrity portraits
on the walls.  He scavenges behind the bar.  Nothing.  He is
about to step away from the bar when --

A sudden, inexplicable flash of green refracts off the
machine gun light.

He crouches, reaches deeper behind the bar and pulls out... a
single bottle of creme de menthe.

He looks at it.  Creme de menthe?!

What the hell.  He opens the bottle and takes swig.
Grimaces.

He takes another brave swig of the noxious liqueur as he
wanders around the Cocoanut Grove.

He stops before a portrait of John Wayne.

He toasts the Duke.

He carries the bottle of creme de menthe with him as he goes
into...

INT.  AMBASSADOR HOTEL - BALLROOM - DAY

The cavernous ballroom is a startling testament to the decay
of the world since the end.

Splendid wallpaper hangs in rotting shreds, heaps of trash
pollute the corners, water trickles down from the
disintegrating roof far above and splashes to the wooden
dance floor.

Thick, tattered drapes keep out the sunlight.

He shines his machine gun light around quickly.  Nothing
useful here.

He is about to leave the ballroom when one of the heaps of
garbage shifts --

He spins around -- dropping the bottle of creme de menthe --
every nerve instantly tensed -- his gun ready.

He steps cautiously toward the garbage.

It is not garbage at all.

It is two humanoid forms, huddled together, sleeping.  From
Neville's machine gun light we see that they are wrapped in
rags and old clothing.  Sheathed like Arab Bedouin tribesmen.

Neville steps back and raises his machine gun.  Without a
moment's hesitation he FIRES -- a terrific explosion of
firepower -- deafening echoes cascade in the cavernous
ballroom -- the flashes from the machine gun illuminate the
things in a violent strobe as they writhe from the shots.

The devastating burst from his machine gun also illuminates
Neville's face:  stoic, business as usual.

The things are finally dead.

A sound behind Neville -- he spins -- A FRENZY OF VIOLENCE --
something is slashing -- at him -- toward him -- on him -- a
flash of jagged claws, fingernails like talons -- primal
snarl -- teeth like fangs --

Neville fires -- too late -- the thing smashes into him --
the gun goes flying -- Neville falls -- the thing is on him,
impotently slashing at his Kevlar body suit -- Neville kicks
the thing away -- it slams to a wall -- in the refracting
light from the machine gun we sense that it is humanoid, very
tall and impossibly fast -- Neville barely has time to pull
his sidearm before the thing bounces up and is on him
again --

Neville strikes forward with his pistol and fires directly
into the thing as it slashes at him -- the thing goes flying
back -- Neville continues to fire -- panic --

Neville empties the pistol into the thing and keeps pulling
the trigger -- click, click, click, click, click.

It is finally dead.

Neville immediately snatches up his machine gun and spins
around -- he fires -- blasting the tattered curtains and
windows to bits -- sunlight suddenly spills into the room.

He spins back and scans the ballroom in the sunlight.  No
more creatures.  Thank God.

A tense beat.

Then he sits, sliding down a wall, his legs almost giving way
under him.

He pants for air and wipes sweat from his face, unnerved by
the unexpected encounter.

He reaches to one of the pouches of his body suit and tears
open the velcro flap.  He reaches into the pouch and
withdraws a thin metal tube.  His hands are shaking a bit.
He unscrews the top of the metal tube and slides out... a
cigar.

He lights the cigar with a Zippo.

He smokes the cigar, trying to calm himself as he gazes at
the dead creatures.

INT.  AMBASSADOR HOTEL - LOBBY - DAY

Neville is making his way out of the hotel, pushing a fresh
clip into his pistol.

He stops suddenly as soon as he can see through the front
windows --

His Rover is overrun with dogs.  They are large and feral and
savage.  A pack of about a dozen animals of differing breeds
swarm over his Rover.  They are tearing the deer carcass to
pieces, ripping the flesh and meat away.

Neville is not unduly alarmed, he has been through this
before...

EXT.  AMBASSADOR HOTEL - DAY

He steps through the door and raises his pistol.  He fires
into the air.

The dogs turn.

He fires his pistol into the air again.

The dogs stop brutalizing the deer and just glare at him.
They begin growling.

Neville quickly holsters his pistol and brings up his machine
gun.

He cautiously steps toward the Rover.  Now the beasts are
growling, snarling and barking.  Neville returns their fierce
glare.

Neville prepares to fire the machine gun in the air when --
as if some secret signal were given -- they attack --

The largest dog leaps from the hood of the car toward Neville
-- he FIRES -- the dog contorts in midair -- the others race
at him -- Neville is forced to fire steadily -- bullets
ricochet wildly off the asphalt and slam into some of the
dogs -- one is almost on him, jaws wide -- Neville slams it
to the side with his gun -- the others in the pack are
pulling back -- but circling -- staying close --

Neville cautiously moves to the Rover -- spinning around to
keep the dogs at bay -- they remain crouched, predatory --

He sees that one of the ricocheting shots from his gun has
pierced the right front tire of the Rover.  Damn.  He checks
the position of the sun.  Damn.  No time to change the tire.
Not with the dogs.

The dogs are now beginning to creep closer, snarling.

Neville leaps into the Rover -- the dogs attack -- Neville
just manages to slam the door -- a ferocious dog snarls and
snaps at the window -- other dogs leap onto the hood --
Neville speeds off -- the dogs are tossed off the Rover --
they immediately race in pursuit --

INT./ EXT.  ROVER - STREETS - DAY

He doesn't get far.

A pierced tire is quickly reduced to nothing as Neville tries
to escape.  He is driving on the rim -- sparks shoot up --

And the dogs remain close -- racing after the Rover and
snarling -- blood drips from the savaged deer carcass on the
hood -- the dogs follow the blood trail as Neville tears
around corners --

A high-pitched electronic beeping inside the Rover --
Neville's wristwatch -- 4:30 -- the sun is going down!

The tire finally disintegrates and the Rover lurches forward
-- the right front side slamming and scraping brutally along
the street --

The Rover smashes to a halt.  He has made it only about three
blocks.

Neville immediately grabs his machine gun and the photo of
Virginia from the visor and leaps out of the Rover.

Without a moment's hesitation he races away from the Rover on
foot, sprinting like mad.

The dogs spin around a corner and swarm toward him --

But they go for the deer instead.  They leap on the Rover and
descend on the deer carcass like jackals on a dead gazelle.

EXT.  STREET - SUNSET

Neville is running, flying through the empty streets.

But he runs smart:  at an even cadence like a marathon
runner, controlling his breathing.

But panic is a heartbeat away -- because the sun is truly
sinking now.  He checks the crimson glow of the sunset as he
runs.

He stops for the briefest moment, panting -- he yanks his map
out and quickly looks at it -- he scans his position, looks
at the street signs around him trying to get his bearings --

He stuffs the map into a pouch again and takes off.

He is clearly heading somewhere.

We follow Neville's urgent journey as he pounds through the
streets:

--  He swerves through alleys -- racing around garbage --
    past abandoned cars -- casting his eyes around
    constantly, wary and alert, but not slowing down -- he
    takes any shortcut he can...

--  Every corner is threatening and each new street a
    potential nightmare, still he runs on relentlessly...

--  The streets he runs through are ominous; a perilous
    phantasmagoria of twisting debris that seems to reach for
    him like skeletal fingers...

--  He tries to remain calm but panic is beginning to set
    in...

It is a race against time as the sun sinks, painting
Neville's world red as blood.

His feet pound and echo in the dead city.

INT.  AMBASSADOR HOTEL - BALLROOM - NIGHT

Strange animal sounds -- high-pitched barks punctuated with a
low keening -- echo around the huge ballroom.

The ballroom is filled with figures.  About fifty of them.
In the refracting light of the moon through the windows we
cannot see much of them, they are fully shrouded in Bedouin
wrappings.

One of the figures quickly crouches on the floor of the
ballroom.

The figure is strong, imperious.  He is the leader of this
band of creatures (who we will meet a bit later).  We see
practically nothing of them here, they are enigmatic shapes
and forms.

The crouching figure tilts his head back and forth as he
looks at the slaughtered remains of the three things Neville
killed.

His talon-like fingernails are digging into the polished wood
of the dance floor.

His nails rip long, jagged gashes in the wood --

SUDDENLY he raises his head and ROARS -- a terrifying primal
screech -- and we see a FLASH of his eyes in the moonlight --
the eyes are almost feline -- the pupils are intense vertical
slits, contracting and expanding strangely in the light --

The eyes are not human.

EXT.  SAFE HOUSE - STREET - NIGHT

Neville runs around a corner to a street of apartment
buildings.  He is covered in sweat, panting.

He goes to a particular apartment building, goes to a side
door, a service entrance.

Neville hauls some debris from around the door then quickly
checks around the door frame.  A thin layer of grease and
dust has been applied, it has not been disturbed.  He pulls a
key from his body suit and unlocks the door.  He goes inside
and then, from the inside, pulls the debris against the door
again and pulls it shut.  He locks it from the inside now...

INT.  SAFE HOUSE - BUILDING - NIGHT

At last Neville breathes a sigh of relief.  Made it.  Safe.

He rests for a moment, hands on his knees, catching his
breath.  Then he walks through the service corridor he is in
and into the lobby.

It is quite impressive.  This was clearly an old building
that had been recently and lovingly renovated.  A towering
wrought-iron stairway climbs the levels around the central
lobby area.  Each floor of the building opens onto this
central stairway and accompanying landings.  An exposed iron
elevator, now inactive leads all the way to the fifth floor.

Neville crosses the lobby with great caution, stepping over a
few wires that cut across the lobby at calf level.  He has
clearly put these wires in place for some reason.  Booby
traps.

He climbs the grand staircase to about the third floor, then
he jumps over a few steps on the way up.  These have been
booby trapped in some way as well.

Finally he reaches the fifth floor, the top.  He goes to a
particularly grand door.  It is not locked.  He enters...

INT.  SAFE HOUSE - PENTHOUSE - NIGHT

Neville seems at home here.  The antique and luxurious charms
of the august penthouse still exist through the decay.

He lights a waiting candle inside the door and checks his
domain.  All the windows are tightly sealed with blackout
drapes which are duct-taped to the walls.  He goes to one
window high in a corner and pulls aside a bit of drapery and
opens the window.  Fresh air.

He passes by a cache of weapons he has secreted here and goes
into the kitchen.  Canned and powdered food line the shelves
along with much bottled water.  A small camp stove sits on a
counter.

He opens a door and looks into a vast wine cellar.  He goes
in and picks out a bottle of wine.  He checks it, rotates it
and returns it.  He selects another.  This will do.

He goes back into the living room, opening the bottle of wine
and pouring a glass.

He sits at a desk and sips the wine.  Some abandoned mail is
on the desk before him.  He aimlessly looks through the mail.
Bills, mostly.

A series of framed photographs on the desk catch his eye.
They show many generations of a single family; from formal,
posed sepia pictures of European grandparents to modern
snapshots of a rich family on a yacht.  Father, mother, three
kids.  Happy.

Neville stares at the pictures.

EXT.  ROVER - STREET - NIGHT

Meanwhile, the feral dogs are still tearing at the deer
carcass on the disabled Rover.  They snarl and fight for any
remaining scraps.

Then they stop, suddenly alert, ears erect.

They glare into the darkness.  Something is there, vague
shapes, shifting and moving.

The dogs are nervous.  They are crouching, tails down, heads
swiveling, sniffing the air.

The predators are now the prey.

A huge alpha-male dog stands on the hood of the Rover and
peers into the darkness.  The forms around the dog are
circling.

The forms stop circling.  A tense beat...

Then the alpha-male slowly lowers his eyes, submissive
behavior.  He yelps, leaps off the Rover and races away into
the night.  All the other dogs follow, fleeing in panic.

One of the figures moves to the Rover.  It is the leader of
this band of creatures we saw in the Ambassador Hotel
Ballroom.

He looks at the Rover and then raises his head, as if
sniffing the air.  His head tilting back and forth.  He
stops.  Then he emits a high-pitched call and the creatures
immediately take off --

They run in the direction Neville had escaped -- they run
incredibly quickly -- long effortless strides -- the elegant
grace of panthers --

The high-pitched call continues as they run and --

Suddenly, a large flock of starlings sweeps like a cloud
above them and zooms into the night.

EXT.  SAFE HOUSE - ROOF - NIGHT

Neville is preparing.  He smokes a cigar as he carries some
of the cache of weapons from the penthouse to the roof.  He
leans three machine guns along the edge of the roof at
various strategic points.

He pulls a tarp off come jerry cans of gasoline on the roof
and sets these at various points along the edge as well.  He
loosens the caps on the jerry cans.

His own machine gun, as always is at his side.

As Neville prepares we note that an iron water tank on an old
wooden frame looms over the roof.

Finally he is satisfied.  Ready.

He stands in the darkness on the roof, smoking his cigar and
gazing over the city.

In the full moon we can see the cityscape of Los Angeles
everywhere around him.  We see towering shapes and
architectural silhouettes against the moon.  The unique
perverseness of this view is perhaps not apparent.  And then
we realize.  There is not a single light on anywhere.  The
city is black.

Neville is taking in the desolation of the city when he sees
something in the distance.  Or thinks he does.

He immediately tosses down his cigar and grinds it under his
boot.  He peers into the night.

A strange, undulating shadow is sweeping through the night
sky -- shifting and ebbing and flowing -- like a inky black
cape cutting and billowing through the sky -- closer and
closer to the building --

Neville raises a pair of night vision goggles and looks --

Suddenly he is surrounded by a huge flock of starlings -- the
birds swirl around him -- they block out the full moon -- and
then are gone, sweeping across the street -- they congregate
on a building across from him.

Hundreds of them.  Staring at him.

Neville watches them, disquieted.  And then he hears it.

A chanting, a moaning, a whisper.  Growing louder.

Neville cautiously moves to the edge of the roof and peers
down the five stories.

The sound is louder now.  A tribal chant, an otherworldly
keening.

And then Neville sees them.

The Hemocytes.

This is our first extended look at them, and they are a
striking sight.  We see the band of about fifty, quickly
moving down the street.  Hunting.  All wrapped in strange
combinations of clothing -- bits and pieces of the past and
the future collide.  Some have totems or ornamentation
supplementing their clothing.  But all are swathed in a
manner that somehow suggests again, a Bedouin tribe.  Faces
are covered in gauze or wrapped in strips of cloth and we
cannot see much exposed skin anywhere.

And they are tall.  Lean and muscular like Masai warriors.

None carries a weapon.  They carry nothing.

And there is clearly a leader, a chieftain.  The HEMOCYTE
CACIQUE leads this tribe.  He wears unique and grisly
ornamentations of bone and skin.  He is the imperious figure
we saw before.

Neville immediately moves away from the edge of the roof so
he cannot be seen.

He hears strange tribal chanting growing louder as they seem
to pass his building.  Then the chant recedes a bit and then
stops abruptly.

Neville waits.  No sound.

He carefully picks up the machine gun, goes to the edge of
the roof and peeks down.

The Hemocytes have indeed passed his building by.  But they
are standing still, not moving.  They seem to be awaiting
instructions from the Cacique.  All their backs are to
Neville.

The Cacique's head is swaying back and forth in a peculiar
way, as if he was trying to shake loose a particularly bad
crick in his neck.  This odd rhythmic motion is typical of
all the Hemocytes, and particularly of the Cacique.

Neville watches as the Cacique raises his head, as if he is
sniffing at the air.

What Neville does not realize is that his cigar is not quite
out -- a thin stream of smoke floats up from a glowing
ember --

Then -- too fast for any human being to move -- the Cacique
swings his head around and he is staring straight at Neville
-- sudden flash of the Cacique's eyes -- cat-like -- inhuman
-- the pupils enormously large in the darkness --

Neville and the Cacique lock eyes.

Then, without a moment's hesitation, Neville raises the
machine gun and opens fire -- a few Hemocytes are mowed down
instantly -- they contort under the incredible firepower of
Neville's gun -- slaughtered --

The Cacique jerks open his jaws and emits a high-pitched
sound -- an inarticulate, animalistic screech -- ATTACK!

INT./ EXT.  SAFE HOUSE - THE ASSAULT - NIGHT

Like a pack of feral creatures they face toward Neville's
building and LEAP to the fire escapes on the front of the
building -- they can leap well beyond anything human -- their
talons grasp at the walls and masonry and fire escape, they
scurry up the front of the building like insects -- amazingly
fast --

Neville fires down on them with the machine gun --

Other Hemocytes fling themselves against the front of the
building -- the front door is heavy wrought iron work -- they
smash through the glass but cannot penetrate the iron --
their talons slash to get inside --

The Cacique remains standing on the street, observing his
troops --

The Hemocytes climbing the fire escape suddenly discover they
have nowhere to go -- Neville has cut off the fire escape two
floors below his -- they roar and snarl in frustration and
begin leaping up -- trying to find a hand hold anywhere --

On the roof above, Neville sprays bullets down and Hemocytes
are slaughtered as they climb the front of the building --
they spin off the fire escape and fall to the street --

His machine gun is empty -- doesn't even think about
reloading -- he grabs another machine gun from the edge of
the roof and fires down --

Meanwhile, other Hemocytes are sniffing around the building,
literally sniffing, following the scent of the prey -- they
follow the scent to the side alley -- to Neville's secret
entrance!

But the Hemocytes on the front of the building won't give up
-- Neville is amazed as they leap up from the truncated fire
escape and begin climbing the walls -- grabbing onto window
ledges and bits of molding -- tenacious --

He quickly opens one of the jerry cans of gasoline and pours
it down -- igniting it with his Zippo -- the flaming gasoline
thunders down on the Hemocytes, just like boiling oil from a
medieval castle -- Hemocytes catch fire and fall in writhing,
flaming heaps -- others continue to climb even as they are
burning --

Neville takes down the last few climbing the front of the
building -- then he sees the Hemocyte Cacique suddenly race
from his position in the middle of the street to the side
alley -- Neville quickly pursues him from around the edge of
the roof and sees that they have discovered his secret
entrance -- they are tearing at the wood of the door
relentlessly with their talons and teeth --

Neville grabs a fresh machine gun and speeds down into the
penthouse -- through the penthouse and to the landing -- he
begins racing down the stairs --

Meanwhile, the Hemocytes tear through the door and pour into
the building --

On the stairs:

Neville sees as they race into the lobby -- a TERRIFIC
EXPLOSION as one of them hits Neville's trip-wire -- a
Claymore mine sends hundred of ball-bearings blazing across
the room -- cutting Hemocytes to pieces -- Neville slams to a
halt on the stairs and opens fire -- his bullets smash down
into Hemocytes and walls and furniture -- a chaos of fire
power -- but still they come -- another Claymore explodes,
more Hemocytes die -- they are now swarming up the stairs --
and leaping to the exposed elevator -- they climb the wrought
iron of the elevator shaft like spiders, impossibly fast --
Neville fires at them but the bullets spark off the iron and
ricochet wildly --

He spins around and fires down the stairway again -- trying
to keep the Hemocytes back but it appears to be a losing
battle --

A Hemocyte finally reaches Neville's booby trapped stair
section -- the stairs collapse and the roaring Hemocyte falls
to the lobby below -- the other Hemocytes simply leap over
the missing stair section and continue up --

Neville retreats back up the stairway as he quickly rams a
fresh clip into his machine gun --

Suddenly three Hemocytes are above and behind him -- they
have scaled the elevator and are LEAPING DOWN ON HIM -- he
slams one to the side with his gun, it flies over the
staircase balcony and thuds to the lobby below -- he spins
and fires at another -- it contorts and flies away -- the
third is on him with flashing talons and compulsively
snapping jaws -- he rams the machine gun into its jaws
lengthwise and shoves it back, finally knocking it to the
side -- it immediately bounces up as he spins the machine gun
around and fires into it -- it explodes --

Other Hemocytes are racing up the stairs -- he spins back to
them and fires as he retreats -- then the gun is EMPTY --

He instantly swings the machine gun around and uses it like a
bat -- swinging it wide, like Davy Crockett at the Alamo --
he slams a Hemocyte off the stairs -- and another -- but the
gun goes flying -- he snatches his pistol from its holster --
he fires as he turns and races up the stairs into the
penthouse, absolute panic --

He bolts through the apartment, to the roof -- he has only a
second -- the Hemocytes are racing through the apartment
after him --

On the roof:

He grabs a jerry can of gas and tears off the top, and spins
around -- spreading a line of gasoline in a full circle ten
feet around him -- the Hemocytes are now at the roof and
racing toward him -- he snaps his Zippo open, and in one
clean move, strikes it against his leg and tosses it on the
gas --

An EXPLOSION OF FLAME AS THE GASOLINE IGNITES -- the
Hemocytes recoil from the flames.

And Neville is trapped on the roof of the building inside a
circle of flame.

Several of the Hemocytes try to leap through the flames --
they ignite immediately -- Neville shoots them with his
pistol as the burning figures try to get to him.

Neville spins around, pistol ready.  The Hemocytes circle the
flames.  Stand off.

A bizarre moment of calm within the frenzy.

Then Neville sees him, the Cacique.

In the roaring fire we can finally see a bit of a Hemocyte
face through the clothing and Bedouin wrapping.  We can see
the Cacique's perverse cat's eyes and bit of skin.  Except
there is no skin.  As if all the epidermal layers were
removed -- we see the veins, tendons, viscera and muscles of
the face.  We don't see a lot.  But what we do see is
ghoulish.

Neville and the Hemocyte Cacique lock eyes through the
flames.  The Cacique's feline pupils expand and contract
quickly in the flickering flame.  Neville slowly raises his
pistol, points it directly at the Cacique's face and pulls
the trigger.

Click.

Out of bullets.

The Hemocyte Cacique slowly smiles, a gaping smile of
discolored teeth like fangs.

Neville instantly pops out the empty clip in his pistol and
hurriedly hunts through a pouch in his body suit for
another --

Meanwhile -- the Cacique suddenly snaps open his jaws and
emits a high-pitched call --

Immediately the Hemocytes face away from Neville and leap
headfirst over the edge of the roof and scale down the
building like lightning, catching the fire escapes, ledges
and windows as they go --

Neville finds a clip and shoves it into the pistol --

The Cacique gives Neville a final glare then leaps over the
edge as well --

A beat.

They have given up the battle, retreated.

Neville is dumbfounded.  Then he realizes.

Sunrise.

The first hints of dawn are just glowing over the rooftops.

Neville, however is still trapped in the ring of fire.  And
the whole roof is now beginning to blaze.

He quickly turns and aims up -- at the wooden frame of the
water tank above the roof.

He squeezes off shot after shot at a wooden leg of the tank
until, finally, the leg shatters and the tower collapses
over --

A TORRENT OF WATER spills from the tank, it washes away
everything in its path -- including Neville -- the deluge
ROARS him toward the edge of the roof -- he thrusts his hands
out -- vainly trying to find a handhold -- no good.  The
water rushes him up and over the edge of the roof --

He falls in the deluge and CRASHES to the fire escape two
stories below -- it collapses and falls to the fire escape
below that -- and the fire escape is still burning -- Neville
is burning as well --

With the last strength he has in him, he throws himself back
off the fire escape -- through a window -- it shatters --

He lands in an abandoned apartment and rolls on the carpet --
putting out the flames that cling to him.

Finally he lies on his back, exhausted.

Robert Neville has survived another day.

EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOME - POOL - DAY

Trout are swimming peacefully.

Splash.  Something dives past them, a swirl of bubbles.

It is Neville.  The fish flit in eddies around him as he
swims through them.

He surfaces.

He is in his swimming pool, which he has stocked with fish.

INT./ EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - DAY

Now dressed in casual clothes, Neville attends to his needs.

He sweeps through the living room and presses a button on his
stereo.

"LIFE DURING WARTIME" (LIVE, 1983 VERSION) by the Talking
Heads plays as we see:

--  Neville goes to his medical facility:  a bedroom he has
    given over to any emergency medical needs he might have.
    Medical books line the shelves of the room.  A
    refrigerator sits in a corner, attached to a humming gas
    generator and a solar power battery system.  He plucks a
    bottle of iodine from a shelf and begins sterilizing some
    of his cuts and bruises.

--  He checks his huge Los Angeles map in the kitchen and
    makes some marks on the plastic with a grease pencil.  He
    has "SAFE HOUSE" written at the location of the downtown
    apartment building.  He crosses the words out.

--  He goes outside to the huge backyard of his estate and
    tosses down some feed for his chickens.

--  He checks his vegetable garden.  Nothing much growing now
    but he gently tests the soil for watering.  Okay for now.

--  He wanders through an orchard of fruit trees and checks
    the progress of his oranges and apples.  He plucks off an
    apple and munches on it as he proceeds.

"LIFE DURING WARTIME" pauses for a moment as he goes into his
garage...

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - GARAGE - DAY

He stands before four large vehicles covered in tarps,
munching the apple.

He pulls the tarp off the first vehicle.  It is another Range
Rover, identical to the other but not customized.

All the vehicles he looks at are up on blocks awaiting his
ministrations.

He looks at the Rover.  Nope.

He moves to the second vehicle.  He pulls off the tarp.  It
is a Toyota Land Cruiser.

Nope.

He moves to the third vehicle.  He pulls off the tarp.  It is
a gorgeous, classic Bentley.

He shakes his head with a smile.

                     NEVILLE
          Robert, what were you thinking...?

Nope.

He moves to the final vehicle and pulls off the tarp.  It is
a Hummer.  Beautiful and black and invulnerable.

He looks at the Hummer and slowly smiles.

"LIFE DURING WARTIME" explodes again as he prepares the
Hummer:

--  He checks a fresh battery on a voltage meter and then
    installs it.

--  He inserts new spark plugs.

--  He fills the oil.

--  He carefully checks and then puts on the tires.

--  He checks all the gas and fluid lines and then fills the
    Hummer with gas and coolant.  He has clearly become quite
    an expert on auto maintenance.

--  Then the fun begins.  He slides on a welding helmet and
    begins welding his "extras" to the Hummer:  crash bars,
    metal grill work and a gun rack.  As well as clamps to
    hold his extra jerry cans of gasoline and spare tires.
    He enjoys all of this very much.

--  He hooks on the jerry cans and spare tires.  He fastens
    his hunting rifle inside.

Finally he lowers the Hummer and it waits.  A moving
fortress.

"LIFE DURING WARTIME" ends.

Neville gazes at the Hummer, delighted.

But he has forgotten one thing.  The final and most important
touch.  He reaches into the Hummer and slides Virginia's
picture onto the sun visor.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville is in his elaborate dining room, about to eat a
dinner of trout.  His place setting is surprisingly formal,
he has fine linen, china and silver.  A candelabra glows on
the table.

It is an achingly lonely image.

A portable tape recorder is on the table near him.  He
presses "PLAY" and eats his dinner as:

                     FRENCH VOICE
               (subtitled)
          Good evening.  Did you have a
          pleasant day today?

                     NEVILLE
               (in quite good
                French/subtitled)
          Busy.  I went swimming and prepared
          a new vehicle.  A big vehicle.

                     FRENCH VOICE
               (subtitled)
          That sounds charming.  Did you meet
          any interesting people today?

                     NEVILLE
               (in French/subtitled)
          Yesterday.  They're back.  Haven't
          seen them for a few months.  I have
          to be careful.

                     FRENCH VOICE
               (subtitled)
          Tell me about the interesting people
          you met, won't you?

                     NEVILLE
               (in French/subtitled)
          They are... sinister.  They want to
          kill me.

                     FRENCH VOICE
               (subtitled)
          That sounds charming.  What are you
          planning to do tomorrow?

                     NEVILLE
               (in French/subtitled)
          Stay alive.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville is standing at the picture windows of his living room
holding a glass of cognac.  He stares at the darkened skyline
of Los Angeles in the distance.

And then, almost on impulse, he goes to the stereo unit and
looks at a collection of about a dozen audio tapes.  They are
labeled:  "VIRGINIA 1," "VIRGINIA 2," "VIRGINIA 3," etc.

Next to the cassette tapes is a framed picture of Virginia.

He selects "VIRGINIA 3" and puts it into the cassette deck.

An unsure beat.

Then he presses "PLAY."

His wife's voice fills the house:

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          -- suppose that's only natural.  But
          I spend a lot of time looking back
          now.  Probably way too sentimental,
          all this looking back --
               (wryly)
          -- but given the option...

Neville smiles.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          I remember the first time we met.
          Do you remember that?

                     NEVILLE
          Yes.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          It was at Diane's party in Malibu
          and I had just broken up with Todd
          and I was loaded for bear, any man
          who had the nerve to come at me --
          watch out.  So you come sauntering
          in -- you know that saunter you do.
          That watch out, baby, here comes
          Mr. Smooth thing.

Neville smiles and moves to the window, taking a sip of
cognac.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          And you're like this mountain
          cutting through the party and all
          the girls are whispering, "Ooo, who
          is that hunk o' man?"
               (she laughs, as does
                Neville)
          So finally you work your way to me
          and I'm all ice.  So you turn on
          the smooth thing and I finally say
          "Look, Bob or Buck or whatever the
          hell your name is, you're too
          goddamn big and you scare me so
          take that filthy cigar and go play
          Bruce Willis somewhere else."

Neville laughs.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          And the look on your face!  It was
          like I kicked your puppy or
          something!  This wounded little boy
          face on top of this glacier body...

A beat.

Neville's smile fades.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          I fell in love with you right then,
          I think.

Virginia continues with some difficulty:

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          The funny thing is that I'm really
          going to miss those damn cigars.
          Sometimes when you're at work and I
          -- now that I can't go out -- I
          light one.  One of your cigars.  I
          bet you don't know that...

Neville, moved, leans his forehead against the glass of the
window overlooking the silent city.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          And...I just let it burn down.
          Because it makes me think of you.
          And all I want to do is think of
          you.

Neville is leaning against the window, utter despair.

                     NEVILLE
          All I want to do is think of you.

Silence...

EXT.  WIDE STREET - NIGHT

Silence...

The Cacique is poised on all fours, every muscle tensed.

A band of about twenty Hemocytes are with him.  They are
stalking something.

The Cacique leads them as they move forward like a pack of
predatory lions, inch by inch, almost imperceptible movement,
their eyes burning toward the prey.

A band of wild horses is slowly meandering down the street.

IN A FLASH -- the Hemocytes attack -- the horses stampede in
panic -- exactly like a herd of gazelle being chased by a
pack of lions --

A terrifying flash of the Hemocytes' speed and agility as
they sprint alongside the horses at incredible speed --
occasionally striking at a slower or vulnerable horse.

An orgy of violence as the Hemocytes feast on the blood and
flesh of the horses -- some still alive --

The Cacique buries himself in the carcass of a horse in a
feeding frenzy --

Another Hemocyte crouches and watches him feed.  Beneath its
Bedouin wrappings we note a antique silver locket hanging
around its neck.  This is not completely bizarre as many of
the Hemocytes have odd personal tokens or ornamentations on
them.

At last the Hemocyte with the locket slowly creeps forward on
all fours -- wary -- and buries itself in the carcass
alongside the Cacique --

The Cacique snarls and swats the Hemocyte away brutally -- it
flies away and bounces up --

It squats for a moment, its head tilting back and forth,
gazing at the kill.

Again it creeps forward -- only now with its head down, eyes
averted, very submissive -- this time the Cacique shifts away
slightly and allows it to feed next to him.

EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - GARDEN - MORNING

Neville is captured in the red glow of morning as he tends to
his vegetable garden.

He is wearing only shorts and his perfect body glistens in
sweat as he hoes the garden.

EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - TERRACE - DAY

Unusually threatening black storm clouds are gathering over
the city.

Neville, now dressed in one of the black body suits, is on
the terrace outside his living room.

On the terrace he has a series of military telescopes of
various dimensions.  He is peering through the largest.

We see the view through the telescope as he focuses, digital
range-finding numbers snap along the edge of his view.

He scans the city.  Finally settling on the tallest building
downtown, the (fictional) Branson Building.

EXT.  BRANSON BUILDING PLAZA - DAY

It is raining.  Driving, violent rain.

Neville is in the Hummer, nearing the Branson Building, but
he is wary.

He slowly cruises down the street, keeping an eye out for the
Hemocytes.  For anything.

As he patrols the area we hear one of Virginia's tapes:

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          No one really knows.  That's why
          we're all so scared.  We're lost,
          you see?  This thing is killing
          everyone and we have no idea where
          to go or what to do.  We've just
          been... abandoned... haven't we?

He slowly passes by the plaza in front of the Branson
Building.  He checks it out as he cruises past.  Through the
steady rain we see a large forecourt and some overgrown lawns
and a child's playground.

Neville doesn't see anything alarming but is always careful.

He continues around a corner, past a store directly across
from the plaza.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          But at least I'm going as I am, or
          as I was.  Those others, the
          mutations, the suffering they must
          be going through, God, that must be
          awful.  Like their blood is
          betraying them.

EXT.  STORE - ALLEY - DAY

He pulls the Hummer into the alley behind the store and
stops.  He grabs his machine gun and leaves the Hummer.

He goes into the back entrance of the store...

INT.  STORE - DAY

It is his usual procedure as he makes his way through the
store and up some stairs.

At last he is on the second floor of the building.  Tendrils
or wire, insulation and electrical cable hang down.  It is a
jungle of debris.

The rain pours in from the collapsing and decaying ceiling.

Neville moves to a window directly across from the Branson
Building plaza.  It is an ideal vantage point to view the
whole plaza.

He carefully studies the plaza through binoculars.  Rain
water trickles over him from the rotting roof above.

But he takes his time.  He is smart.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          I wonder if we should leave town.
          Seems like everyone else is going.
          We could stay with my sister in the
          mountains, I guess.

Then he stops scanning with the binoculars -- sees
something --

A single black starling is sitting on the jungle gym of the
playground.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          But what good would that do?
          Nowhere's safe anymore.  We can't...
          escape.

The starling takes off.

Neville continues to carefully scan the plaza.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          Maybe you're right.  Let's just...
          stay here.  It's our home.  And I
          want to die in my own home.

Finally, Neville is satisfied.

He turns to head downstairs --

CRASH -- the sodden floor completely collapses beneath him --
he falls headfirst toward the first floor below -- but he is
brutally jerked to a halt -- he swings forward and smashes
through the plate glass window of the first floor -- he is
hanging upside down -- dangling from one leg -- one foot is
trapped in cables and debris above --

He is unconscious, hanging in the store window like a side of
beef on display.

Quick snap to black.

Then we hear a steady, insistent buzzing...

We fade up to...

EXT.  BRANSON BUILDING PLAZA - NIGHT

The rain has stopped.

Two Hemocytes are drinking from a tiny pool of fetid rain
water on the plaza.

They crouch on all fours and lap at the water like cats.

Then they become aware of the strange, electronic buzzing.

They go to investigate...

INT.  STORE - NIGHT

Blood.

We see a pool of blood forming on the floor... we travel
up... we see Neville's dangling hand, dripping blood... his
watch, the alarm buzzer sounding.

Neville jerks awake --

It is night!

He twists in panic, still hanging down from one leg, the
cable and debris are cutting into his ankle and blood is
streaming along his leg.

He slaps the alarm buzzer off and jerks back and forth --

And then he sees them --

Through the shattered shop window he sees the two Hemocytes
moving across the plaza toward him --

In blind panic, Neville tries to pull himself up -- tries to
get free from the debris that imprisons his leg -- can't --
he keeps checking back at the approaching Hemocytes --

Neville gives up on getting free -- no time -- and pulls out
his pistol -- but his hand is wet with blood -- the pistol
slips from his grasp -- in panic he snatches at it -- it is
just beyond his fingers -- can't reach it --

The Hemocytes are nearing --

At last Neville hunches up and grabs the diver's knife
strapped to his ankle -- he turns the blade in toward his
wrist, hiding it -- and lets himself dangle.

He is playing dead.

The Hemocytes slowly approach, tilting their heads,curious.

Neville does not move.

They finally see him from across the street and stop.  Then
they move toward him, their jaws compulsively opening and
closing wide in silent communication.

Neville does not move.

At last they are almost right upon him.

Neville does not move.

They stop before him.  They slowly lean toward him -- inches
away -- their terrible jaws opening and closing --

Neville does not move.

One reaches out and touches him --

An EXPLOSION of action -- Neville brutally slashes the knife
up -- disemboweling one of the Hemocytes with a single
stroke --

But the knife goes flying --

The other Hemocyte ROARS and SLASHES at him -- Neville
defends himself as best he can from his upside down position
-- he strikes out and flails with his arms and one free leg
-- he spins around in the assault -- views of the feral
attack when he is facing the Hemocyte --

Finally, with one strategic kick he sends the Hemocyte flying
back -- it SLAMS against a wall and slumps for a moment --
dazed --

Neville immediately hunches up and with one incredible burst
of strength TEARS his ankle from the debris --  he falls
hard --

He quickly spins to the Hemocyte -- the Hemocyte is almost
up, almost ready to attack again --

Neville snatches up his pistol and FIRES --

The Hemocyte is dead.

Neville shoves the pistol into the holster and quickly rises
-- gasps -- almost collapses again -- his ankle is in
torment --

He limps rapidly through the darkened store, lurches out the
back door --

EXT.  STORE - ALLEY - NIGHT

Right into another Hemocyte --

It is at the Hummer, peering in --

It spins and FLIES across the alley at him -- so amazingly
fast -- no time to draw his pistol --

Instinctively -- Neville punches forward -- AN ENORMOUS PUNCH
-- the Hemocyte collides right into his fist -- it's own
momentum defeating it.

And it is down and out.

He quickly pulls his pistol and aims it at the creature.

He stops.  He doesn't shoot.

A beat.

He can see something on the Hemocyte.  He leans down.
Through the rags and wrapping he sees an antique silver
locket glinting.

He looks at it for an unsure second and then leans down and
yanks the locket away.  He opens it and looks inside.

We do not see what is inside the locket, but Neville's
usually stoic face betrays a quick flash of emotion.

INT./ EXT.  HUMMER - STREETS - NIGHT

Neville races for home.

Even with his headlights the absolute darkness makes driving
extremely treacherous.  He takes familiar routes but the
black city is dangerous.  He slams off of cars and uses his
Hummer like a battering ram as he jams his foot down on the
gas pedal.  Blood is beginning to pool on the floorboards
from his ankle wound.

His headlights briefly illuminate the eyes of another pack of
feral dogs as he zooms past.

Behind him, in the cargo area, is the unconscious Hemocyte.
Neville has bound it tightly with wire cable.

He spins around a corner and slams on the brakes.  The Hummer
slides to an abrupt stop.

Hemocytes are everywhere on this street.  As one they turn
and stare at the Hummer -- the headlights are strong on the
vehicle so they shield their eyes -- we see wildly dilating
and expanding pupils -- the barbarous keening begins --

Neville shoves the Hummer into reverse and races back wildly
-- too fast -- he slams into some wreckage -- the Hemocytes
are swarming toward him -- Neville jams the Hummer into gear
again and quickly swerves forward into a tight alley -- too
tight --

The Hummer slams into the alley walls -- slashing off the
side mirrors and sending sparks flying --

Hemocytes are now speeding around the corner of the alley
after him -- and the end of the alley is blocked!  An
abandoned garbage truck is wedged in the end of the alley --
totally blocking the way out -- he is trapped.

Neville slams the Hummer to a stop -- there is a sudden
frenzy of movement from right behind him in the Hummer -- the
captured Hemocyte is awake.

It writhes against the wire restraints and its jaw snaps
compulsively -- like a Mako shark trapped in an elevator, it
wriggles and snaps -- now on its knees -- trying to get to
him with horrific strength and violence --

Neville slams the Hummer into reverse and FLOORS IT --
straight back at the pursuing Hemocytes -- the Hemocyte in
the cargo area catapults forward -- into the front passenger
area -- snapping at Neville's head -- he punches at it
blindly with one arm as he roars backwards down the alley --
now truly smashing off walls in his desperate backwards
race --

He slams into dozens of Hemocytes -- sending them flying or
grinding them under the Hummer -- others are faster and leap
out of the way, strange superhuman leaps --

He spins the Hummer out of the alley and floors it down the
street --

The snarling thing beside him in the Hummer is in a frenzy --
jaws flashing -- he punches at it -- it sinks its teeth into
the forearm of his body suit --

But the Kevlar armor protects him -- he doesn't feel the
teeth but the power of the jaws is incredible --

Hemocytes on the outside are now leaping for the Hummer as it
barrels through them -- three manage to cling onto the
vehicle -- two are on the hood, scratching and pounding at
the front windshield, blocking Neville's view -- the other
clings to the driver's door and slams at the window --

Neville yanks his arm free from the Hemocyte beside him and
quickly pulls his pistol -- he swings it brutally knocking
the Hemocyte out --

Meanwhile, he is still flooring it, racing ahead blind --
can't see past the Hemocytes on the hood -- the Hummer slams
into and over some cars -- the Hemocyte on the driver's door
is violently torn off as the Hummer sweeps past a building --

Neville manages to get the Hummer back to the street --
slamming aside cars, phone booths, parking meters and
Hemocytes as he goes -- the two Hemocytes on the hood are
still pounding, scratching and biting at the glass --

Neville jams the pistol to the glass and fires twice --
deafening echoes -- blood splatters and the Hemocytes fly off
the hood -- two clean holes in the window.

Ahead, Neville sees the Cacique standing in the middle of the
road, glaring at him --

Neville floors the Hummer -- right at the Cacique --
relentless -- they lock eyes as the Hummer bears down on the
Cacique -- at the last second, the Cacique VAULTS forward --
over the Hummer --  the vehicle flies past beneath him -- the
Cacique lands gracefully and spins around.

Neville races away, leaving the Cacique behind.

The Cacique stands in the carnage.  His head tilts this way
and that, watching the Hummer escape.  Watching it head up to
the hills.

Then he turns to his followers.  Many have been killed.  He
sees other Hemocytes leaping on them and devouring the
corpses.

He turns back to watch Neville's retreating Hummer then
throws his head back in a ferocious bellow of primal anger.

INT./ EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - GARAGE - NIGHT

Neville pulls the Hummer in and leaps out.

He yanks out the still unconscious Hemocyte and drags it
quickly into the house...

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - RACQUET BALL COURT - NIGHT

He drags the Hemocyte in and dumps it.

The racquet ball court in the house is large.  The wall with
the entrance door is entirely plexiglass.  Above that wall is
an upper observation area for spectators to watch the game.
The upper area has plexiglass windows that can be opened to
allow direct access to the court below.

Moonlight streams in from a huge skylight above.

He immediately leaves the court and slams the door in the
plexiglass wall shut.

A quick sequence -- we see him rooting around a work bench in
the garage for a tool box and some hardware -- we see him
welding locks and bolts into place on the racquet ball court
door -- the work makes him sweat, he strips off the top of
his body suit -- always keeping an eye on the inert Hemocyte
-- at last he is satisfied.

It is locked in.  Secure.

He looks in at the Hemocyte, still unconscious.

The wire he used to bind the creature is cutting into it,
blood trickles from the wounds where the wire has cut through
the clothing and into the Hemocyte's "skin."

He takes a pair of wire clippers from his tool box, steps
into the court and goes to the unconscious Hemocyte.  He
snips the wire -- FULL ATTACK! -- the Hemocyte spins in an
instant and slashes at him -- a deep cut along one of
Neville's forearms -- blood sprays along one wall of the
court -- he races out of the court -- the Hemocyte bounds
after him -- almost on him --

But it goes for the blood instead --

Neville slams the door shut and locks it as the Hemocyte
attacks the wall -- it laps and sucks at the blood --
devouring every trace of Neville's blood --

He watches, stunned.

Then the Hemocyte suddenly turns and flings itself toward the
plexiglass wall -- it slams into the wall -- the face
wrappings tear off a bit -- the gruesome visage is pressed to
the glass, the shifting feline eyes blazing -- it gnaws and
scratches -- trying to get to him.

The plexiglass recoils and quavers from the impacts but it
holds.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL ROOM - NIGHT

The refrigerator in the medical room is open.

This is Neville's only refrigeration and precious.  Inside is
a collection of drugs and a dozen pouches of blood.  His
blood, in case of emergency.  Each pouch contains about a
pint.

He has also stored a collection of different batteries in the
fridge.  And a few bottles of expensive vodka.

He removes an ampule from the fridge and fills a syringe.  He
injects himself, a tetanus shot.

He returns the ampule and takes out a bottle of vodka.  He
kicks the fridge shut and takes a slug of vodka.

He is going to need it.

He carefully sanitizes the wound on his forearm with some
antiseptic and then, after another swig of vodka, begins
putting in stitches.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - RACQUET BALL COURT - ABOVE - NIGHT

The Hemocyte is wild.  As if going through some terrible drug
withdrawal.  It prowls the racquet ball court and quivers and
shakes.

Neville, his forearm now bandaged in gauze, watches from the
observation area above as it stalks the court.  He
occasionally takes a sip from the vodka bottle.

It finally senses him and spins into a FEROCIOUS LEAP to get
at him -- its talons reach up and it batters itself in the
attempts -- it can jump an unnaturally long way, but not far
enough -- it growls and howls in frustration.

Neville watches as the Hemocyte stalks the court.

He takes a swig of vodka and leaves.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Neville is preparing his dinner, cutting up a roast chicken.

A radio on the counter plays:

                     NEVILLE (V.O.)
          -- living in Los Angeles.
          Rendezvous at the plaza in front of
          the Branson Building.  I'll check
          every three days at noon...

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - RACQUET BALL COURT - ABOVE - NIGHT

Neville is munching on a bit of chicken, watching the
creature.

It crouches in a corner, still shivering and quaking a bit,
glaring up at him.

He tosses a bit of chicken down to the court.

The Hemocyte instantly sweeps across the court and sniffs at
the chicken.

It turns and moves back to the corner, rejecting the food.

Neville looks down, thinking...

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL ROOM - NIGHT

Neville retrieves one of his blood pouches from the fridge...

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - RACQUET BALL COURT - ABOVE - NIGHT

Neville tosses the blood pouch into the court.

The Hemocyte leaps on it and races to a corner.  It tears
open the blood pouch with its teeth and feeds.

Neville watches as the blood calms the creature.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - STUDY - NIGHT

Neville is in the study in his house, a room we have not
seen.  Stacks and stacks of old newspapers and magazines fill
every corner of the room.

Neville is hunting through a mountain of old magazines.  He
flips through them, looking for something.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville is reading an old NEWSWEEK magazine.  The date is
January 13, 1999.  The decaying cover shows a picture of an
early Hemocyte mutation -- not horrific yet, but not entirely
human either -- with the headline:  AB BLOOD.  OUR ONLY HOPE
AGAINST THE VIRUS?

He is reading a long article.  We see flashes of the text,
references to:  "... blood mutation..." and "... immunity to
the virus..." and "... extreme sensitivity to UV light..."
and "... epidermal layers shedding..." and "... brain
functions affected..."

We also see bits of NEWSWEEK graphics showing the circulatory
system and skin layers as well as blood group charts (AB
blood is only 5 percent of the world population.)

He closes the magazine, it is late and time for bed.

He decides to check on the Hemocyte one last time.  He
descends a stairway and disappears down some corridors...

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - RACQUET BALL COURT - ABOVE - NIGHT

He creeps to the upper observation level and peeks down, not
wanting the creature to see him.

What he sees is amazing.  And then astounding.

The Hemocyte is crouched in the corner, facing the wall.

It has pulled off a good deal of its clothing and Bedouin
wrappings.  We see more of the eerie flesh-less body, the
veins, arteries and muscles.  We even see some skeletal
structure through the viscous outer layers.

From behind it is incredibly lean and muscular.  We literally
see the muscles working on the arms and back as it pulls at
its face coverings.

But there is something else about the figure.

The Hemocyte slowly turns its head to Neville.

Although the skeleton frame is almost sexless there is
something about the contours of the "face" -- the high
cheekbones and large eyes.  There is a certain graceful, even
elegant quality to it.

It is a woman.

                     NEVILLE
               (quietly)
          My God...

She stares up at him.  Not threatening.  Not feral.  If
anything, quietly defiant.

                     NEVILLE
          Can you understand me?

The Hemocyte Woman tilts her head back and forth, her jaws
working slowly but compulsively.

                     NEVILLE
          What is your name?

The Hemocyte Woman suddenly stands -- faster than any human
could move -- but she does not attack.  She is very tall.

Then she quickly turns back to her corner and covers her head
in her hands, her talons rapping insistently on her clean,
hairless skull.

It has been a long day, Neville is weary.  He turns out the
court lights and leaves.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - MORNING

Neville is shocked from sleep by fearful howling --

He leaps up and races to --

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - RACQUET BALL COURT - ABOVE - MORNING

The Hemocyte Woman is cowering in a corner of the court,
snarling and letting out excruciating cries.  She covers her
eyes.

A bright slash of morning sunlight is cutting across the
court from the skylight.

EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - ROOF - DAY

Neville is on the roof, nailing a thick tarp in place over
the skylight.

Below, the Hemocyte Woman watches from a dark corner as
Neville blocks out the painful sunlight.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - RACQUET BALL COURT - ABOVE - DAY

Neville, now dressed in one of his body suits, stands on the
upper observation area.

The Hemocyte Woman, now comfortably in the darkened court, is
sitting in the corner.

She is looking up at him.  Always wary.  But something else
as well.  Appreciative.  Curious.

A breakthrough.

She is beginning to trust him, although the edge of quiet
defiance and resentment continues.

Meanwhile, Neville has filled a small plastic container with
some blood.

He carefully lowers the plastic container of blood down to
the court on a string.

She looks at it -- she does not attack -- she looks back at
him.

                     NEVILLE
               (gently)
          Go ahead...

She looks back to the container and then slowly creeps
forward, on all fours like a spider.  She is unused to having
her food in such an odd form.

She sniffs at the container -- darts her tongue in -- and
then quickly turns away from him and drains the blood --
licking out every drop.

Neville pulls the container up again.

She looks up at him.

                     NEVILLE
          What is your name?

She does not respond.

He switches out the light and leaves his pet to the
comforting darkness.

INT.  LIBRARY - DAY

Neville is hunting for books in a cavernous, echoing library.

We see that he has totally rearmed:  a fresh machine gun,
pistol and diver's knife.

He is scanning the spines of books on biology and medicine
with his machine gun light.  He is particularly interested in
books on blood, transfusions and immunology.

He selects a few books.

He hears a scuttling sound -- and quickly spins the machine
gun light around -- a rat is scampering along the checkout
counter.

A sign on the counter:  QUIET PLEASE.  NO TALKING.

He smiles ruefully.

EXT.  LIBRARY - DAY

Neville emerges from the library with a collection of books
and jumps into the Hummer.  Speeds off...

INT.  HIGH BUILDING - DAY

But Neville is being observed.

High in a nearby building, the Cacique is watching him
intently from the shadows.

He watches as Neville roars away up a long street leading to
the hills.

Then the Cacique steps into the sunlight so he can watch
Neville's route -- his movement disturbs a roost of nesting
starlings who flutter about -- the sunlight is painful -- the
Cacique's "skin" immediately begins to discolor -- no
vampire-like burning and scorching but the pigmentation
begins mutating horribly -- the Cacique quivers and then
shakes -- he follows the Hummer with his eyes as far as he
can -- bearing the pain as long as he can --

Finally, he steps back into the shadows, panting.

The birds are still fluttering around him.  A beat as he
watches them.

Then he holds out his arms.

The birds swirl and land on his arms.  He brings one arm
close.  He looks at the birds closely.  We fully expect him
to devour a particularly unlucky starling.

Instead he keens to them lightly.

And they suddenly soar away in a great mass into the sky.

Following Neville.

Then we hear a strange, tormented howling.  It carries
into...

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - RACQUET BALL COURT - ABOVE - DAY

It is as if the Hemocyte Woman were burning alive from the
inside.  She writhes and twists around the court in some sort
of violent seizure.  She slams into walls and into the
plexiglass door in a grotesque and unnatural way, her whole
body vibrating.

She has seemingly no control over the fire burning inside her
body.

It is agonizing to witness.

Neville watches from above with concern.

The Hemocyte Woman is letting out a frightful sound -- an
inarticulate moan punctuated by savage howls -- a jumble of
sounds -- almost like words -- she snaps her jaw as if
fighting with them -- her throat muscles work crazily.

And there is something different about her.

Her movements are somehow less Hemocyte -- less feline or
insect-like -- they are somehow more human.  The rhythmic
head tilting and unnatural gaping jaw movement are almost
gone.

And her "skin" is glistening as if a patina of sweat or
translucent material was covering her.

Neville runs to his medical room and grabs a pouch of blood
from the fridge.  He races back to the observation deck and
tosses the blood down into the court.

The Hemocyte Woman leaps on it and tears it open -- she turns
her back and begins drinking the blood eagerly -- but then
she suddenly flings it away from her and retreats to a corner
of the court -- the moaning and strange transmutation
continuing.

The blood pouch remains, unfinished.

Neville stares at the blood pouch.  His blood is doing this.
It is hurting her.  It is changing her.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - RACQUET BALL COURT - NIGHT

Neville sits right outside the court at the plexiglass wall,
watching the Hemocyte.

He has dimmed the lights for her comfort.

The Hemocyte Woman is crouched in a darkened far corner,
watching him.  She is quiet.  The terrible fits are over for
a moment.

Across the court the blood pouch is now empty, by now she has
drained it.

He watches with fascination as she stands and slowly moves
toward him, her eyes averted.  Very cautious.

Then she swiftly crouches right against the glass, her back
to him, but near.  A demonstration of trust?

On an impulse he reaches into a pocket and removes his Zippo.

He lights it.  She turns.  Face to face.  Inches away, only
separated by the plexiglass.

A stunning moment of realization.

Her eyes are now much closer to human than traditional
Hemocyte feline.

He carefully eases up the dimmer on the court lights.

She does not seem unduly uncomfortable in the light.

He stares at her in amazement.

The translucent patina covering her veins, arteries and
muscles is congealing a bit.  It is forming into some sort of
skin, a pigmentation making her easier to look at, less
monstrous.

His blood is triggering some chemical/biological mutation.
She is becoming something more human.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - RACQUET BALL COURT - NIGHT

Neville is now sitting on a chair inside the court.

He wears one of his body suits and his pistol rests on his
knee.  Not taking any chances.

A bottle of wine and a wine glass are at his side.

As importantly, the court itself looks different.

Neville has filled the court with things from around the
house.  A few chairs, books, knickknacks, towels, plastic
utensils, clothes.

He is trying to stir her memories.

She stands against a wall, ignoring everything, looking at
him.  Her animal ferociousness is almost gone.

By now the skin-like patina is covering the Hemocyte Woman
completely.  It glistens in wet transparency and we can
barely see the bones and viscera beneath.

Her "skin" is forming into a chalky, albino-like hue.

Silence.

                     NEVILLE
               (very gently)
          What is your name?

She peers at him.

                     NEVILLE
          What is your name?

She tries to speak -- it is difficult -- disjointed syllables
are all she can manage.  The rudiments of language, garbled
and hard.  Or it could be that language is impossible for her
and she is just echoing sounds.

                     NEVILLE
          What is your name?

She tries -- it is as if language is just beyond her reach --
as if she can't quite remember -- her mouth works back and
forth trying to form something.

Nothing but eerie sounds emerge.

She slowly steps toward him.  He is wary.  His hand tightens
on the pistol, but otherwise he remains absolutely still.

She stands over him for a moment.

Then she quickly snatches up the wine bottle.  She holds it
to her breast -- possessive -- and retreats into a corner.

Neville rises and steps toward her.

He holds out his hand.

                     NEVILLE
               (gently)
          Mine... Mine.

She clutches the bottle closer.

He instinctively understands the complex roles of dominance
and submission of the animal world.  He drops his eyes and
backs away.

He stands across the court, eyes down.

A beat as she gazes at him.

Then she slowly steps forward and sets the wine bottle before
him.

She backs away.

He picks up the wine bottle.

                     NEVILLE
          Thank you.

He takes the bottle and wine glass and leaves the court.  He
carefully locks the door.  He glances back to her.  Her
expression is one of cold resentment as he dims the lights.

He goes.

She stands for a moment and then kneels -- not crouches -- by
the clothes.

She touches the clothes.  It is as if she is trying to
remember some long lost dream.  She picks up a bathrobe and
very gently feels along the contours of the piece.  Tactile
memories stirring.

And she begins making a sound.  A soft, repetitive sing-song
sound.  Just the barest hints of structure -- of musical
tones.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville is in his kitchen, cutting up some vegetables for
dinner.

He stops cutting and just stands.  He has not been this
lonely for years.  Having the Hemocyte Woman so close and yet
so far is terrible.

Then he hears a strange whispering sound.  Ghostly.

He quickly goes into the living room and dims the lights.  He
steps to the windows and stares into the darkness --

He leaps back in shock --

The picture windows are covered with thousands upon thousands
of the starlings fluttering against the glass.

He can barely see anything through the fluttering mass of
birds.  A shifting cloak of frenzied black feathers.

The starlings are not attacking the house exactly.  It is
more as if they are scouting, looking, trying to find a way
in.  Reconnaissance.

And then -- as if some silent signal were given -- the
starlings are suddenly gone, sweeping away in a great, black
cloud.

Neville stands for a moment... stunned.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - RACQUET BALL COURT - DAY

Neville hands the plastic container of blood to her.

She is now dressed, somewhat haphazardly, in the bathrobe.
She takes the blood very calmly.  There is almost a trace of
sadness, or shame in her eyes as she turns away and drinks.

She always turns away from him to feed.

The mutation is almost complete.  She is as human looking as
she will ever be:  no hair, unusual albino-like skin.  We can
still see the hints and shadows of blue veins around the
corners of her face.  In a way, she is beautiful.  Sleek,
tall and limber.

She hands the container back to him.

He is about to leave when she makes a sharp sound.  He stops.

She very slowly moves to him.  He is cautious but stands
without moving a muscle.

She slowly reaches toward him -- he does not move.  She
gently feels along the contours of his face with her talon-
like nails.

His demonstration of trust is extraordinary as her nails
trace along his skin.

Her expression is absolutely neutral.

INT.  SOUND STAGE - NIGHT

The Cacique, amazingly, seems to be crouching in a Victorian
parlor.

He is shifting back and forth on his haunches and twisting
his head back and forth, faster and faster -- very strange --
a low rumble is building within him -- his intense energy
mounting --

We pull back and realize that the Cacique is not in a
Victorian parlor at all, he is on a movie set.

We keep pulling back and see the Victorian parlor set is in
the midst of a vast and decaying sound stage.  Scaffolding
climb the walls and cables hang down everywhere.

Decimated animal carcasses, some hanging from the scaffolding
pollute the place.  It is a enormous, echoing charnel house.

About fifty Hemocyte are gathered, watching the Cacique
eagerly, rabidly.

They are the HEMOCYTE WARRIORS -- the tallest, strongest and
most fervent of the tribe.  They wear unique and grisly
ornamentations of bone and skin.

The Cacique's low rumble is building -- building -- his head
snapping back and forth faster and faster --

The Hemocyte Warriors share his growing passion -- they shift
back and forth -- they rend at their own flesh and beat at
their heads -- they slam their hands on the floor in a
building, percussive frenzy -- they leap around the
scaffolding with increasingly hysterical physicality --

The building animal energy is mounting to an explosion --

Finally the Cacique vaults to his feet -- ROARS -- the
Warriors respond -- a ferocious, violent cacophony thunders
around the cavernous sound stage --

It is a terrifying, feral burst of absolutely maniacal
zealotry.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL ROOM - DAY

Neville is carefully pouring some blood from one of his
pouches into the plastic container.  Although he has tried to
replenish his blood stock, he is down to three pint pouches.

He tries not to think about that as he closes the
refrigerator and goes...

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - RACQUET BALL COURT - DAY

The Hemocyte Woman is standing in a corner, waiting for him.

He unlocks the door and enters.

                     HEMOCYTE WOMAN
          My -- name --

Neville freezes, stunned.

She struggles for more words.

                     HEMOCYTE WOMAN
          Is -- Emma.

The words came out oddly and strained, but intelligible.  She
braces herself and tries again.

                     EMMA
          My name -- is -- Emma.

A pause.

                     NEVILLE
          My name is Robert.

A beat.

Then he slowly and carefully extends a hand, offering a
handshake, offering contact.

                     NEVILLE
          Robert.

She does not take his hand.

A beat.  He withdraws his hand.

She looks down at the container of blood.  He hands it to
her.

She takes the container from him and turns her back, quickly
draining the blood.

Her back remains turned to him as:

                     EMMA
          You -- think I am -- I'm --
               (she shakes her head
                violently)
          -- an animal.

                     NEVILLE
          No.

She turns to him, defiant.

                     EMMA
          You lie -- like a human.

Appropriate music over a quick sequence as we see Emma
practicing speaking with Neville:

--  They never leave the court.  She stalks around like a
    caged tigress.

--  She now interacts with the things he has put in the court
    as they talk.  Speech is coming back to her in a great
    wave.

--  Then Neville paces as she sits, he is excited to be
    speaking again after so long.

--  They converse continually.  Her speech rapidly improving.

--  Day passes to night.  The glow of the sun on the tarp-
    covered skylight disappears.  Night passes to day.  The
    sun glows on the tarp above again.

--  Although we do not hear a word we sense it is not a
    particularly pacific conversation.  She is continually
    defiant and occasionally angry.

--  Tension is the clear undertone and tenor of their
    conversations.

The sequence ends as we burst into mid-scene:

Emma's speech is almost human, though she still has to fight
for occasional words or thoughts.  Her speech patterns and
cadences are still somewhat strained and unusual.

She paces back and forth:

                     EMMA
          I can't live like you do -- all your
          machines and -- cold metal and sharp
          corners --

                     NEVILLE
          You lived like this once.

                     EMMA
               (angrily)
          That is not now, human!

                     NEVILLE
          My name is Robert.

She physically brushes aside the name as she stalks past.

                     NEVILLE
               (grumbles)
          Great, I finally find someone to
          talk to and all you want to do it
          argue.

The concept of humor is totally alien to her.

                     EMMA
          It is not arguing to speak the
          truth.

                     NEVILLE
          Listen to me, my blood somehow...
          helped you.  It could help all of
          you.  We could find some way to --

She stops.  Looks at him.

                     EMMA
          To become human?  Is that what you
          think we want?

A beat.

                     EMMA
          Look how you live.  You -- fight --
          for warmth and meat and light.  You
          fight through every day in this
          place that has moved past you.  It
          is a place for us now.

A tense beat.

A stand off.

Then:

                     NEVILLE
          Would you like to see the sunlight?

She looks at him.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Neville enters the living room.  Emma follows.

The blinds are open on the enormous picture windows
overlooking the city and the sun streams in.

We see what she does -- blinding light -- overexposed, almost
painfully shining hues.

She shields her eyes from the light.

                     NEVILLE
          Are you all right?

                     EMMA
          Yes.

                     NEVILLE
          Do you want to go on?

She ignores him and walks across the room toward the window.
A shaft of sunlight burns across the room.

She stops before the shaft of sunlight.  She looks at it
through half-closed eyes -- we see burning light and heat.

Then she slowly reaches out...

Her hand touches the sunbeam.  The flesh on her hand begins
to go through a metamorphoses.  The pigmentation begins to
discolor, but not as quickly or as violently as it did with
the Cacique earlier.

She holds her hand in the light for a moment.  A flood of
unexpected memories wash over her, kinesthetic responses to
the sun.  We see strange, disjointed flashes of picnics and
the beach and happy people playing in the sun --

She pulls her hand away from the sun.

A pause.  She does not look at him.  For the first time, we
see a tiny flash of vulnerability.

                     EMMA
               (quietly)
          It's so... warm.  I forgot that.

He closes the blinds as:

                     NEVILLE
          How much do you remember?

                     EMMA
               (looking around the room)
          It comes back.  Flashes.  My name.

She wanders around the darkened living room, looking closely
at all the artifacts from the old world.  They are at once
mysterious and familiar.

She continues around the room, fascinated by what she sees.
Not paying much attention to him:

                     NEVILLE
          Do you remember where you lived?

                     EMMA
          It was warm.  I was outside.  The
          ocean?

                     NEVILLE
          What about... now?

                     EMMA
          With them?

                     NEVILLE
          Yes.

                     EMMA
          We move.  Place to place.

She picks up a CD case, turns it in her hand, sets it down
and continues to explore.

                     NEVILLE
          When you're here, in the city, where
          do you live?

                     EMMA
          Dark and large.  With vines -- no,
          not vines.  Not alive.

She stops before the framed picture of Virginia.

                     EMMA
          Who is this?

                     NEVILLE
          My wife.

Emma looks at the picture closely.

                     EMMA
          Was this -- "beautiful?"  Before?

                     NEVILLE
          Yes.

She nods tersely and continues to walk around the room,
looking at things.

                     NEVILLE
          Do you remember where it is?

                     EMMA
          What?

                     NEVILLE
          Where you lived with them.

She stops, turns to him.

                     EMMA
          Why?

He does not respond.

                     EMMA
          You want to find them.

                     NEVILLE
          Yes.

                     EMMA
          You want to kill them.

He does not respond.

                     EMMA
          Why don't you start with me?

                     NEVILLE
          You're not them.

A beat.  She stares at him, defiant.

                     EMMA
          Open a vein and let me feed -- then
          tell me what I am.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

After dinner.  The remains of a meal are before Neville.
There are no plates or food before Emma.

The house is dark except for a candelabra glowing on the
table.  The windows show dramatic vistas of the dead city.

Immediate confrontation:

                     NEVILLE
          What choice did I have -- ?!

                     EMMA
          You hunt us like animals -- do you
          know how many you have slaughtered?!

                     NEVILLE
          I only protect myself -- !

                     EMMA
               (insistently)
          You are The Human.  The Hunter.  The
          thing that comes in the day and
          kills --

                     NEVILLE
               (angrily)
          If I'm a hunter it's because you
          taught me to be!

She stands very quickly and stalks around the room
relentlessly, still the caged tigress.

Neville watches her prowl.  Under the table, he rests his
hand on the butt of his pistol.

She stops and looks at the black city in the distance as if
it were calling to her.

A long beat.  She has her back to him.

                     EMMA
          What do you want?

                     NEVILLE
          What do you mean?

                     EMMA
          You know what I mean.

She turns to him:

                     EMMA
          Are you going to keep me caged up
          forever?

He does not respond.

                     EMMA
          Will you keep feeding me?  How long
          can you live like that?  Until it
          kills you?  Until I kill you?
          Without your blood I'll go back.

                     NEVILLE
          We don't know that --

                     EMMA
          I know it.  What do you want,
          Robert?

A difficult moment.

                     NEVILLE
               (simply)
          I wanted to hear someone say my
          name.

A beat.

                     EMMA
          Then know I am what I am.  I could
          be across this room and on your
          throat before you had time to
          scream.

A beat.

He fishes in his pocket and holds up the antique silver
locket he took from her when he captured her.

                     NEVILLE
          Do you recognize this?

She instinctively reaches for her neck, where the locket used
to hang:

                     EMMA
          Mine.

                     NEVILLE
          Have you always had it?

                     EMMA
          I don't know.

                     NEVILLE
          Have you looked inside?

                     EMMA
          Yes.

                     NEVILLE
          What's inside?

                     EMMA
          Humans.

                     NEVILLE
          Who?

                     EMMA
          I don't know.

A beat.

He rises and hands the locket to her.

                     NEVILLE
          Look inside now.

She opens the locket.

Inside, she sees a picture of herself with her husband and
young daughter.  Happy.  A family.

Her eyes almost immediately fill with tears.

                     NEVILLE
          That's who you are too, Emma.

                     EMMA
               (quietly)
          Before... when I was one of them.
          I would look at this and it was just
          strangers.  Now I... remember.

She gently shuts the locket.

She finally looks up at him.

                     EMMA
          I don't want to remember.

EXT.  STREET - NIGHT

The Cacique is crouched, poised, alert.

Not a muscle moves.  He is just watching.

He is watching Neville's house.  He is a few blocks away.  He
can see Neville and Emma through a window.

He has found them.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - RACQUET BALL COURT - NIGHT

Emma enters the court.  She is now wearing the locket.

Neville closes the door after her and locks her in.  She is
safely in her cage.

She turns to him.

Through the plexiglass:

                     EMMA
          I'm not an animal.

He looks at her and dims the lights to black.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Neville can't sleep.  He lies on his bed, deep in thought.

We float away from him and through the darkened house...

We half expect the Cacique to be around every corner as we
float through the twists and turns of the house...

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

We float to the living room...

Through the picture windows we can see something in the city
far below.  Something completely unexpected.

The tiny flickering light.  A flame.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - MORNING

Neville is just awake, he is going through the living room
when he stops.  He looks through the windows.

Several thin streams of jet black smoke are drifting up from
downtown.  Neville quickly goes to an outdoor terrace...

EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - TERRACE - MORNING

He peers through one of his military telescopes.

He finally locates the smoke.  He follows the smoke trails
down.  They seem to be drifting up from near one of the
skyscrapers downtown.  The Branson Building.  Other buildings
block the exact source of the smoke.

And the telescope provides an even more bizarre sight.

Vultures, circling.  A lot of vultures.

Neville raises his head from the telescope.  Is this the sign
he has waited for, for so long?  But why the vultures?  He
races into the house.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - RACQUET BALL COURT - DAY

Neville, now dressed in one of his body suits, appears at the
court.  He carries a container of blood.  He unlocks the door
and enters.

                     NEVILLE
          I have to go into the city.

A beat.

                     NEVILLE
          I won't lock you in.  You can go if
          you want to.  Or wait until tonight.
          I won't keep you prisoner.

A beat.

                     EMMA
          You want me to stay?

                     NEVILLE
          Yes.

She takes the container of blood.  For the first time she
does not turn away to feed, she looks right in his eyes as
she drains it.

Then:

                     EMMA
          Do you still want me to stay?

                     NEVILLE
          Yes.

A beat.

                     EMMA
          I'll be here.

She touches the locket.

                     EMMA
          I want to remember my daughter.

INT.  HUMMER - DOWNTOWN - DAY

Neville is cruising toward downtown.

In the sky above him Neville notices strange daytime
lightning crackling through the sky.  The meteorological
convulsions of the apocalypse go on.

Neville is heading toward the thin line of smoke and the
vultures, which are still swirling over the towering
buildings downtown.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Emma stands in the shadows of the living room, gazing at the
picture of Virginia.

She goes to the cassette deck of the stereo unit.  She sees
an empty cassette box marked "VIRGINIA 10."

She sees a tape in the machine.  She presses PLAY.

Emma gasps as Virginia's voice fills the house:

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          I remember laughing at all those
          cranks talking about the millennium
          and the end of the world, telling us
          how nature was going to strike back
          in revenge for the rain forests and
          the ozone and pollution...

EXT.  NEAR BRANSON PLAZA - DAY

Neville stops the Hummer a block away from the plaza.  Smart,
cautious.  He can see the smoke trails and the vultures
circling and congregating.  Still can't see the source of the
smoke.

Neville takes his machine gun and climbs from the Hummer.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          Or even the fire-and-brimstone crowd
          talking about God's vengeance and
          the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.
          I don't remember who the Horsemen
          were.  War was one, I think.

He carefully approaches, gun ready.  The mangy flock of
vultures is close now.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          And Pestilence.  I'm sure Pestilence
          was one.  I guess he won the race.
          But just by a nose.

He rounds a corner and can almost see into the plaza -- can
almost see the source of the smoke -- he hears a strange,
repetitive metallic grating sound --

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Emma listens, surprisingly moved by what she is hearing:

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          If I believed in God this would be
          easier maybe.  Some Supreme Wisdom
          making this all happen.  Some
          purpose.  But I don't believe in
          God.  Do you believe in God?  I
          can't... remember.  There's so much
          I can't remember now.  I have to
          ask you when I see you.

EXT.  BRANSON BUILDING PLAZA - DAY

The vultures keep a wary eye on Neville as he approaches,
they shuffle this way and that and flare their wings wide in
warning, bobbing their heads up and down.

He stops dead -- his face betraying absolute horror --

Human remains are smoldering before him.

The charred and blackened skeletons and torsos of about six
humans are grotesquely displayed around the playground of the
plaza.

Some are dangling, suspended on wire from a swing set.
Embers of smoldering fires are beneath each one.  Oily, acrid
smoke trails up.  The figures are contorted and mutilated and
burnt, but clearly human.

And the glowing embers and still-rising smoke suggests this
was done very recently.

Others are lashed to various pieces of playground equipment.
One is tied to a small carousel which rotates lazily in the
breeze -- the source of the strange, repetitive metallic
sound.

Elsewhere on the plaza Neville sees the signs of this small
band of humans.  Two Air Force jeeps that have been slashed
to pieces as well as guns, clothing and water.

The vultures are plucking at the bodies.

Neville stares in stunned outrage.  Then he raises his
machine gun and fires a short burst.  The vultures scatter.

He stands without moving a muscle, looking around.  He alone
with the first "humans" he has seen in over two years.

Then he becomes aware of a sound -- faint -- from one of the
jeeps -- he goes to it.

He glances into the jeep.  The radio is on.

He hears, very faintly, his own voice:

                     NEVILLE (V.O.)
          ... the tallest building downtown.
          You can't miss it... This is Robert
          Neville --

He switches the radio off.

The full enormity is sinking in:  they were ambushed trying
to find him.

He leans against the jeep, defeated.

His eye is drawn to a splash of red -- a bloody trail
streaking across the plaza -- as if someone had crawled away
from the carnage.

He follows the bloody trail and discovers --

A body.  Not burnt.  Slashed to death.

He kneels down and gently touches the body.

He cradles the body, swaying back and forth.

Unspeakable torment.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          There's one thing we never talk
          about... you know we don't.  Why
          aren't you sick?  Everyone else...
          is dying.  Or dead.  Are you the
          only one who's going to survive?
          How can you live like that?  So
          alone.  God, I hope there are
          others.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Emma is sitting in a corner of the living room, listening.
She is clutching her locket and swaying back and forth,
crying gently.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          Now, at the end, because it's really
          the end now, I think about you all
          the time.  My biggest fear since I'm
          forgetting everything now -- is that
          I'll forget you.

EXT.  BRANSON BUILDING PLAZA - ALMOST SUNSET

In the red glow of dusk we see Neville burying the bodies in
the overgrown lawns of the plaza.

He has buried almost all of them.

He works carefully and with solemn care.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          Maybe it's all evolution.  Maybe
          nature or God or both decided this
          page had to turn.  So our time is
          now over.  Leave the planet to the
          insects.  Had to happen sooner or
          later.  Nothing's immortal.

His wristwatch alarm starts beeping.  He ignores it.  Keeps
digging.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Emma is listening, standing at the windows overlooking the
dead city.  Night has fallen.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          Except you.  Maybe you're immortal.
          Or maybe it's something in your
          blood, something scientific,
          something complicated and medical.
          But I don't believe that.  Not
          anymore.  I think it's more simple
          than all of that I think you were
          chosen.

She turns -- gasps --

The Cacique is standing before her.

A stunned moment as she stares at him.

INT./ EXT.  HUMMER - HILLS - NIGHT

Neville is in a panic, racing up the hills toward his house.
He see something ahead that terrifies him.

In the black night ahead his worst fears are realized:  HIS
HOUSE IS IN FLAMES -- a raging inferno.

He screeches the Hummer to a halt and races into the house --

INT./ EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - THE FIRE - NIGHT

It is a world of flame.

He barrels through the burning house --

                     NEVILLE
          EMMA!

He quickly checks the racquet ball court -- the kitchen --
the dining room -- leaping through flame and around twisting
pillars of fire that rage and explode everywhere --

                     NEVILLE
          EMMA!

She is nowhere to be found.

He is grabbing anything he can as he runs -- trying to
salvage useless bits and pieces of his life in a panic as he
sprints through the blazing house --

He hears a voice -- strange, slow, distorted --

He tears into the living room -- slams to a halt -- what he
sees is almost too painful to comprehend -- the stereo unit
is burning --

Virginia's tapes are a bubbling, melting chaos of plastic
behind a solid wall of flame -- so too her picture.

His memories are burning.

And one of Virginia's tapes is still playing in the stereo --
her voice distorting painfully --

He instantly drops everything he is carrying and tries to get
to the tapes -- can't -- the flames shoot at him -- the roof
is beginning to collapse -- he must escape the inferno --
Virginia's voice finally melts to a cruel stop -- he runs
toward the terrace --

But that entire side of the house SUDDENLY COLLAPSES in on
itself in a seismic spasm of flame --

He spins around and speeds through the house -- the
photovoltaic panels begin falling and shuddering down into
the house -- slicing across his path --

With no other option he DIVES through a window --

He rolls when he hits the backyard and immediately rises and
makes a leaping dive into his pool --

Meanwhile, we see the picture of Virginia finally contort and
char in flame.

She is gone.

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - GARAGE - NIGHT

The flames are roaring over his cars and toward the armory --
toward the explosives --

EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - POOL - NIGHT

Neville swims to the bottom of the pool just as --   
   
THE HOUSE EXPLODES!   

The pool rocks -- Neville is battered under the water -- a
huge wall of flame roars over the water, casting Neville's
writhing form in fiery red and yellow -- debris instantly
begins knifing through the water everywhere around him --
slicing through a few of the trout --

An enormous, flaming section of the house COLLAPSES OVER THE
POOL --

He is trapped -- running out of air --

Neville braces himself on the bottom and pushes himself up
with every ounce of strength he has left -- flying like a
human torpedo toward the wreckage --

He SMASHES through the flaming, hissing wreckage and pulls
himself from the pool -- gasping air.

EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Neville, covered in soot and water, sweating and exhausted,
stands by the Hummer on the street outside his house.

He watches his sanctuary burn.  The flames shoot high into
the black night.

He hears a noise, spins around.

It is Emma.

She has been lashed with barber wire to a telephone pole
across from his house.

She is bleeding, battered, dying.

He races to her and uses his diver's knife to cut her free.

He catches her as she collapses forward.

In the raging glow from the fire, he holds her as she die:

                     NEVILLE
          Emma...

                     EMMA
          He wanted me to see -- he thinks I
          was -- infected by you.

                     NEVILLE
          Shhh... don't talk.

                     EMMA
          I want to talk.  I just learned
          again.

Neville cannot speak.

                     EMMA
          You have to go.  He'll never stop.
          Leave this place.  Find another.

                     NEVILLE
          I'll go.  We'll both go.  Far away.

She looks at him, and smiles gently.  The first smile we have
seen from her.

                     EMMA
          You lie like a human.

A beat.

She gently touches her locket.

                     EMMA
          Thank you for letting me remember.
          It was... warm.

She dies.

He hunches over her body, shattered, head down.

A long moment as we watch them.

As we hear:

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          I think you were chosen.  I think
          you were chosen to survive.  To
          bear witness to the eclipse of this
          life.  Of our species.  So I don't
          want you to mourn for me.  I don't
          want you to mourn for us.

He looks up, the roaring flames are reflected in his
tormented eyes.

                     VIRGINIA (V.O.)
          You have a purpose, Robert.  We are
          all myth now.  And you are legend.

INT./ EXT.  HUMMER - NIGHT

Neville is driving.  His eyes are haunted as he zooms away
from Los Angeles forever...

The city disappears behind him as he heads into the
mountains...

And toward the black, empty landscape of the desert...

EXT.  MOUNTAIN ROAD - NIGHT

A sound, distant, nearing...

The steady drumbeat of pounding feet...

The Cacique and about thirty of his Warriors sweep past in a
frenzied black mess...

They are running.

EXT.  DESERT HIGHWAY - NIGHT

Blackness.

The only light is from Neville's headlights.

He has stopped on a lonely stretch of highway.  He is
standing by the Hummer, pouring a jerry can of gas into the
tank.

He sees something move quickly past his headlights.

He continues to pour the gas.  Normally he would be reaching
for a gun.  Now he doesn't give a shit.

Movement again in the headlights.

A single coyote stands in the headlights gazing at Neville,
it's eyes reflecting a garish yellow in the beams.

Neville stares at the coyote, grim.

                     NEVILLE
          Fuck off.

The coyote lopes away.

Neville finishes filling the gas and tosses the jerry can
away.

He climbs back into the Hummer and roars off.

EXT.  DESERT HIGHWAY - DAWN

The Cacique and his thirty Warriors are loping as well.
Tenacious.  Relentless.

They pass the jerry can Neville discarded.  The Cacique notes
it, but doesn't stop.

And the sun is rising crimson over the flat desert horizon.

Some of the Warriors are already suffering from the sun --
they are weakened -- falling behind --

At last the Cacique snarls out a command and the Hemocytes
instantly dive off the highway and bury themselves in the
sand.

They burrow into the sand like scorpions.

Waiting for night.

EXT.  GHOST TOWN - DAY

Neville drives the Hummer through the small main street of an
abandoned town.

It is much like the ghost towns of old Western movies --
except it is modern.  It has an asphalt main street rather
than a dirt road, a corner bar rather than a saloon, parking
meters rather than hitching posts.  Neville sees a small
market and a bowling alley and a pharmacy and a movie
theater.  A few abandoned cars lie about.

The town is totally devoid of life but for lizards, insects
and birds.

But even this isolated spot wasn't totally immune from the
panic at the end.  Neville notices some graffiti sprayed on
the side of a building:  I'LL PRAY FOR YOU.  WILL YOU PRAY
FOR ME?

He pulls the Hummer to a stop outside the small market.  He
climbs out wearily and goes into the market...

INT.  MARKET - DAY

The large windows at the front of the store provide an
abundance of light as Neville moves into the market.

Unlike most of Los Angeles, this store has not been totally
ransacked.  It is a small rural market.  A Mom-and-Pop
operation with tin siding for walls.

Still, it provides him with what he needs.

He first goes to the rack of beverages and snatches up a
bottle of water.  He gulps it as he wanders:

--  All the fresh vegetables are shrunken, blackened goo.

--  All the freezer cases are off, melted ice cream spills
    out to an aisle.

--  All the meat is rotting and covered with maggots.

--  But there is plenty of bottled water and canned food.

As he nears the back of the long, thin store it grows darker,
away from the front windows.  The darkness makes him nervous.
He moves again to the front of the store.

He finishes the bottle of water and gets another.

He sits on the floor of the aisle and drinks.

Then he lies down, fetal position, cradling the bottle of
water, and falls immediately into an exhausted sleep.

EXT.  DESERT HIGHWAY - NIGHT

A Hemocyte Warrior is on all fours -- urgently sniffing the
asphalt.

The Cacique and his followers crouch, waiting impatiently.
They are at a crossroads in the highway.  Which way to go?

The Cacique barks out some severe, impatient commands.

The Hemocyte Warrior rises and jerks his head in one
direction.

They take off.

As they run we hear, inexplicably, the roar of the ocean...

INT.  THE NEVILLE HOME - NIGHT

The Pacific Ocean rolls gently in the distance.

We are at the Neville's lovely home in Palos Verdes, before
the virus.  Before anything.

Neville and Virginia are having dinner.  Quiet normality only
made poignant by our awareness of what is to come.

                     NEVILLE
               (smiling)
          You and that damned garden.

                     VIRGINIA
          Yeah, but when your mother came
          what's the first thing you showed
          her?

                     NEVILLE
          I surrender --

                     VIRGINIA
          Besides, if we get a lot of work
          done this summer it'll be done.

                     NEVILLE
          It's never gonna be done.  You love
          puttering out there too much.

                     VIRGINIA
          Well, it's not supposed to be done
          anyway.

He laughs.

                     NEVILLE
          That's the whole point -- it keeps
          on going -- it's a process.  We
          keep on planting and it keeps on
          growing.  Forever.

Neville smiles and takes a sip of wine.  Then he notices
something.

A single ant is crawling across Virginia's face.

                     VIRGINIA
          The more we plant, the more that'll 
          grow, and the happier --

                     NEVILLE
          Virginia...?

                     VIRGINIA
          What?

Now her face is covered in ants -- he lurches up --

                     NEVILLE
          VIRGINIA!

INT.  MARKET - DAWN

Neville lurches awake --

He is covered with ants -- he stands with a cry and brushes
them off frantically -- gets control of himself -- just a
nightmare -- okay.

He shakes his head and squints in the bright sunlight that
streams in from the windows.

He leaves the store...

EXT.  GHOST TOWN - DAWN

And wanders to the middle of the main street.

He just stands there.

We pull back and back, higher and higher.

The rising sun sends Neville's long shadow slashing down the
deserted street.  It is Gary Cooper in HIGH NOON.

Finally we move over the roofs of some of the buildings on
the street and we see them --

Starlings, hundreds of them.  Massing.  Out of sight.

EXT.  DESERT - MORNING

The Cacique and his Warriors are running -- and dying --

The morning sun is streaming over them --

The Cacique snarls commands brutally to his tribe as they
race over the desert landscape --

The ghost town is just before them --

His followers are dropping like flies -- writhing in torment
in the relentless sun --

But he will not stop -- his eyes burn like zealous fire -- he
can smell the prey now --

He cruelly snatches up some coverings from the a dying
Warrior and wraps them around himself -- shrouding himself
completely -- some of his most rabid followers do the same --

They leave the weaker Warriors behind -- twisting and
disfiguring and dying in the sun --

The Cacique and his fifteen surviving Warriors are totally
wrapped -- their pigmentation mutating violently even under
the shrouds --

But they will not stop.

They will finish this war once and for all.

They speed toward the town...

EXT.  GHOST TOWN - DAY

Neville is unloading supplies from the Hummer, taking stock.

He has his machine gun and one extra clip of ammo, a jerry
can of gas, a tool box from the Hummer and a few highway
flares.

He takes a swig from a bottle of water and mops his brow.
The desert heat is already cruel.

He begins to unzip the top of his body suit, preparing to
strip it off --

But then he sees something.

A single starling is resting on the main street, watching
him.

Neville stares at the starling.

He doesn't want to believe.

It's just a bird.  It can't be...

He slowly turns...

Thousands of starlings now perch everywhere around the tops
of the buildings, up and down the street.

Neville instantly zips up his body suit again and grabs for
his machine gun --

Too late.

BLOODCURDLING SCREAMS as a pack of about ten Hemocyte
Warriors attack from nowhere --

They speed from around corners and shop doors -- racing
toward him --

And they come with a ferocious advance guard -- THE STARLINGS
-- they attack -- passive observers no more -- they swirl
around Neville -- a tornado of frenzied black feathers --
blacking out the sun in fitful bursts -- ATTACKING HIS
EYES --

He bats at them and leaps toward his machine gun --

Grabs it up -- just as the first Hemocytes reach him --

He FIRES -- not even aiming -- he can't -- his eyes are
CLENCHED SHUT against the relentless starlings -- HE SPINS
BLINDLY AROUND IN A CIRCLE -- FIRING NON-STOP -- he sprays
bullets everywhere -- they slam into the Hummer and destroy
windows around the street -- starlings explode in feathered
bursts -- he continues to fire -- spinning around -- eyes
clenched -- panic --

The approaching Warriors are cut to pieces -- he doesn't stop
firing -- sheer, horrible fire power slams through them --
abandoned cars are devastated --

The starlings finally sweep away -- Neville snaps open his
eyes and continues firing non-stop -- the rabid Hemocyte
Warriors race toward him even as the bullets slam into them
-- Neville continues to fire -- aiming now -- taking down the
last few.

Finally the clip is empty -- a stunning moment of absolute
silence --

Neville grabs another clip -- his last -- and shoves it in
the machine gun -- looking around anxiously -- the ten
Warriors lie dead on the street -- their bodies disfiguring
in the sun --

He waits -- every muscle tensed -- ready.

Silence.

He sees that he has decimated his Hummer -- bullets have
pierced the engine and a tire and gas drips from the tank --
he has no escape.

All right.  It will be war to the end.

He spins around -- scanning every corner of the street as he
hurriedly grabs a few flares and stuffs them into a pouch on
his body suit -- slaps the velcro pouch closed -- he roots
through the tool box -- still scanning the street -- still
awaiting the next assault -- finds nothing in the tool box --

He hears a sharp bark -- he spins -- sees nothing -- he hears
another cry -- an animal screech -- he spins around again --
sees nothing.

They are planning their attack.

Neville is smart.  He will wait in the sun.

And the sun saves him.

The briefest flash of a shadow on the street -- he spins and
looks up -- three Warriors are flying DOWN ON HIM FROM THE
ROOF ABOVE -- they dive headfirst -- talons outstretched --
snarling jaws --

He FIRES -- one is killed -- it contorts in midair
grotesquely -- the other two SLAM into him --

They all tumble to the street -- Neville's machine gun goes
clattering across the pavement -- he jumps up and reaches for
his pistol but has no time --

The two Warriors ROAR at him --

They slam into him and all three CRASH through the plate
glass of the market window --

INT.  MARKET - DAY

Neville jumps up and DIVES through a display -- trying to get
some distance -- the Warriors leap up and pursue --

Neville rolls up and yanks out his pistol -- firing blindly
-- BLAM-BLAM-BLAM -- destroying the wares -- he keeps on
firing -- BLAM-BLAM-BLAM -- shattering bottles and piercing
cans -- backing away quickly --

He slips -- falls -- the melted ice cream --

He keeps on firing -- BLAM-BLAM-BLAM --

The Warriors spin away -- disappearing.

A tense beat -- Neville slowly stands in an aisle -- awaiting
the attack -- he hears the shifting of the two Hemocytes --
seemingly everywhere --

And then he hears absolutely nothing.

He knows what this means.

They are stalking him.

He slowly moves back in the store -- responding to any sounds
he hears -- or thinks he hears -- he keeps the pistol ready,
constantly scanning around him -- how many bullets left?! --
he moves deeper into the cluttered store -- further from the
windows -- into the darkness at the rear of the store --

At last he has his back pressed against the tin siding that
forms the back wall of the store --

Nowhere else to go.  He can retreat no further.

He can see only down the aisle directly in front of him -- in
that aisle, nothing -- but the others? -- from which
direction will they come?

He remains pressed against the back wall of the store, pistol
constantly scanning back and forth.  The back door is next to
him -- keeping the pistol constantly ready he slowly reaches
one hand back and feels for the door --

He finds the doorknob -- turns it --

It is locked.

He presses back at the door -- it gives slightly in the tin-
siding wall -- but is secured, locked, bolted.

He hears something shift -- closer -- which aisle?!  Where?!

How many bullets left?!  Does he dare check?!

He is beginning to panic -- then he stops -- he thinks.

A beat.

Then... incredibly... he puts the pistol back in his holster.

His face is resolute.  One chance.  An incredible gamble.

He LAUNCHES himself forward at top speed and runs halfway
down the aisle ahead of him -- a flurry of movement from
other aisles -- and then he slams to a halt and REVERSES
DIRECTION --

He is racing toward the back wall of the store -- TOP SPEED
-- as fast as he can go -- his legs and feet pounding --
every bit of his massive strength behind every step --

He is FLYING toward the back wall -- no way he can stop now
-- he lowers his head and lets out a fierce bellow as he
DIVES STRAIGHT AT THE BACK WALL --

DEVASTATING IMPACT AND THE TIN SIDING COLLAPSES --

The ENTIRE WALL falls --

BLINDING SUNLIGHT EXPLODES INTO THE STORE --

Neville rolls off the tin siding and spins around --

The two Warriors are shielding their eyes from the sudden and
unexpected burst of sunlight as they rage toward him --

Neville quickly draws the pistol and fires --

BLAM -- one Warrior dead, a clean head shot -- BLAM -- the
other Warrior shudders but continues -- BLAM -- another head
shot, the Warrior still rages at him -- CLICK --

Out of bullets.

The Warrior falls at his feet.  Dead.

Neville immediately races through the market again --

EXT.  GHOST TOWN - DAY

He lurches out of the market and snatches up the machine gun.

He spins around, ready.

Silence.

He slowly moves to the middle of the street.

Silence.

It is not finished.  He knows it.

Silence.

Then:

                     NEVILLE
               (a ferocious roar)
          WHERE ARE YOU?!

His voice echoes around the dead town.

                     NEVILLE
          LET'S FINISH IT!  NOW!!

SUDDENLY -- a manhole cover right at his feet flies up -- in
a FRENZY OF MOVEMENT the screaming Cacique pops up from the
manhole and grabs Neville -- pulling him down into the
manhole --

Into the darkness --

Neville's machine gun lies on the street.

INT.  SEWERS - DAY

They cascade down the tunnel ladder -- spinning and writhing
together --

They slam to the floor of the sewer --

Neville kicks brutally at the Cacique -- smashing his face --

The Cacique swats Neville's foot away with a snarl -- and
dives for him -- his nails scratch uselessly along Neville's
Kevlar body armor as Neville rolls to his feet and runs --

The Cacique bounces up and crouches for a moment -- his
bizarre feline eyes focusing on Neville's retreating form.

Then he smiles.

He raises his head and lets out a terrifying, triumphant
screech.

He leaps up and races after Neville.

The hunt is on.

The hunter has become the hunted.

INT.  OTHER SEWER TUNNEL - DAY

Neville is splashing through some standing water in the
sewers when he hears the Cacique's footsteps echoing behind
him, closer and closer.

And he hears a series of animal growls and snarls, maniacal,
closer and closer.

Neville stops -- thinks -- can't panic -- he looks around --
he sees something in a side sewer tunnel -- he splashes into
the side tunnel.

Then:

We see the Cacique racing through the first sewer tunnel, he
is sniffing at the air as he runs.

He reaches the place where Neville diverted to the other
tunnel.  He splashes to a halt.

He tilts his head crazily back and forth, sniffing the air.

He smiles and speeds into the side tunnel...

INT.  SIDE SEWER TUNNEL - DAY

This tunnel is much wetter.  Water streams continuously along
the walls and splashes in small waterfalls from broken mains
above.

The Cacique wades into the water.  It reaches up to his
thighs.

He stops, sniffing and twisting his head.  Confused.  Where
is the prey?

Beneath the water, Neville is holding tight to the bottom of
the tunnel.  He is submerged, holding his breath.

Inches away through the filthy water are the Cacique's
gnarled feet.  Neville watches them.  The feet slowly move
away down the tunnel.

Above, the Cacique slogs through the water, peering ahead and
trying to hear the sound of the prey over the steadily
running water.

Behind him -- Neville slowly rises from the water -- silent
-- the Cacique does not sense him -- Neville reaches to a
pouch on his body suit -- he stops -- the pouch has a velcro
flap -- the sound will surely alert the Cacique --

What the hell.

In one quick motion Neville tears the velcro open and reaches
into the pouch -- the Cacique immediately turns, crouching --
Neville yanks out a phosphorescent flare --

The Cacique springs forward -- Neville slams the top of the
flare across a wall of the tunnel -- BLINDING WHITE LIGHT --

The Cacique's feline pupils slash to almost invisible
vertical slits -- he is blind --

Neville slams forward with the flare -- smashing it across
the Cacique's face -- the Cacique recoils from the blow -- he
flails blindly with his talons --

Neville launches a terrific kick and slams the Cacique
through the water and into a wall -- the Cacique instantly
bounces back and strikes at Neville with wildly slashing
arms --

The flare goes flying into the water -- it continues to burn
as it sinks -- casting a strange flickering liquid shadows
around the sewer tunnel --

Neville takes instant advantage of the Cacique's momentary
confusion to dive for a ladder leading up --

He quickly scales the ladder to a manhole cover --

The Cacique is already following --

Neville shoves aside the manhole cover and pulls himself up
to the street.

He wants to fight on his turf.

EXT.  GHOST TOWN - DAY

Neville emerges in front of the decaying bowling alley -- he
glances around quickly, and seeing no other option, he races
into the bowling alley.

The Cacique vaults from the manhole in a single leap.

He crouches and spins around -- his eyes still burning from
the flare -- and now the sun --

But he makes out Neville's wet footprints leading across the
pavement and into the bowling alley.

He follows...

INT.  BOWLING ALLEY - DAY

The Cacique runs into the bowling alley and jerks to a stop
-- alert -- cautious.

He peers around the unusual setting -- he sees the long
wooden lanes leading to empty holes in the wall, the pin-
setting mechanisms -- he sees a dark jukebox and arcade and
bar -- the racks of dusty bowling balls and shoes.

He has no idea what any of this is.

Light filters in from many skylights above, but not enough to
cause the Cacique much discomfort.  Shafts of light slash
through the place and particles of dust glimmer.  It is very
dusty.

The Cacique tries to smell the prey but the dust makes it
difficult.

He begins to prowl -- hunched -- feline -- predatory.

He is careful to avoid the direct shafts of light from the
skylights above.  He moves slowly around a ball return
machine and scoring table -- he stops -- he sees something --

From just around the edge of one of the holes where the pins
used to stand -- in the guts of the pin-setting mechanism --
he sees an inch of Neville's body suit.

Unfortunately it is still wet from the sewer and it glistens
very slightly in the refracting light.

That glisten is all the Cacique needs.

He slowly moves down the lane -- shoulders hunched, claws
tensed -- tasting the kill -- closer and closer.

At last he reaches the end of the lane --

Stops --

It is not Neville -- it is only one piece of his leg armor
wrapped around the pin-setting mechanism --

A rumbling sound -- the Cacique spins --

Too late.

A bowling ball SLAMS into him -- shattering his ankle --
knocking him from his feet --

Neville is standing at the end of the lane -- he grabs
another bowling ball and races toward the Cacique --

The Cacique springs to his feet -- almost falls -- howls in
pain at the shattered ankle but forces himself up --

Neville races to him and swings the bowling ball -- SMASHES
it into the Cacique's face -- the bowling ball flies away --

The Cacique recoils under the terrible assault but still
springs forward --

Neville attacks -- brute strength against brute strength --
they collide and twist in mortal combat -- it is the ultimate
war of attrition -- savage, unrelenting, all sanity gone --

They are locked together in final battle -- Neville is
twisting his arms around -- maneuvering for something -- what
is he trying to do?

He finally forces his forearm forward into the Cacique's face
-- the Cacique clamps his jaw on Neville's forearm --

Bingo.

The Kevlar armor protects Neville's arm -- the Cacique's eyes
grow wide -- Neville grabs the wrist of the forearm and SLAMS
forward with every bit of strength he has --

He SLAMS the Cacique backward into a wall -- crashing his
head against the wall brutally -- the Cacique is dazed --
can't get his bleeding jaw off the armored forearm --

Neville slams the Cacique's head again and again against the
wall mercilessly --

The Cacique swings his talons up toward Neville's head --
Neville ducks and rolls backwards, kicking up -- sending the
Cacique flying over him --

The Cacique's jaw finally release from Neville's forearm --

The Cacique goes sailing over Neville and slams to the
floor --

Neville spins around and grabs the only weapon he has left --
the diver's knife strapped to his ankle --

He leaps on the Cacique -- thrusting the knife brutally into
his stomach -- the Cacique ROARS up at him -- his jaws
snapping lethal inches from Neville's face -- Neville throws
his head back but keeps thrusting the knife in again and
again --

The Cacique SLAMS Neville's face with his talons -- his nails
dig savagely into Neville's flesh -- blood pours -- Neville
thrusts with all his strength one last time and buries the
knife in the Cacique's stomach --

They remain locked like this -- Neville pressing the knife
into the Cacique -- the Cacique digging his talons into
Neville's face.

They lock eyes.

Neither gives an inch.

They will stay locked like this for all eternity if need be.
Until one of them is dead.  The sheer will to live will
decide the outcome.

It does.

With a final growl the Cacique's talons finally release
Neville's face and flop to the floor.

He is dead.

Neville collapses off the Cacique, panting for air,
exhausted.

A long pause as he just looks at the Cacique.

Then he notices something.

In the battle some of Cacique's bedouin shrouds have been
torn away.  Neville sees a patch of leather protruding from
some wrapping.

He reaches forward and tugs at it.

It is a wallet.

Neville slowly opens it.

Inside is a California driver's license:  "Terry McCabe."

Also credit cards and bits of paper.

And a picture.

The picture shows the Cacique as he was.  He stands with his
wife and two children.  Happy.  A family.

Neville stares at the picture.

He lets the wallet fall from his hands and just looks at the
dead creature before him.

He slowly drops his head.

EXT.  GHOST TOWN - DAY

Neville is emerging from a pharmacy.

He has bandaged and sterilized his horrible face wounds, but
he still looks pretty awful.

He has stripped off his body suit and now just wears shorts
and a T-shirt.  It is practically the first time we have seen
him without his suit of armor.

He walks to the Hummer and looks at it.  Totally disabled.
He reaches in and pulls out the picture of Virginia.

He leans against the Hummer and stares at her for a long
moment.

Then:

                     NEVILLE
          Where do I go now?

Then, the hint of a blazing white light flashes across his
eyes.

He glances up.  Squints.

From his position leaning against the Hummer he can see into
the market...

Through the shattered front glass...

Through the darkened store...

Through a gaping hole where the back wall used to be...

Something is glinting in the sun.

If he has been standing in any other spot but exactly this --
leaning against the Hummer, looking at Virginia's picture --
he never would have seen it.

He tucks the picture of Virginia into a pocket and goes
through the store and out the back hole, following the
glinting...

INT.  BOWLING ALLEY - DAY

The Cacique lies dead.

But we hear a sound...

A low rumble, a building growl...

The remaining Hemocyte Warrior is standing over the Cacique's
body.

He suddenly flings back his head and ROARS -- a ferocious,
maniacal keen of outrage and wrath.  The roar echoes around
the deserted bowling alley.

This battle goes on.

EXT.  DESERT - AIR FORCE BASE - DAY

The glinting is closer now.

Neville is walking slowly through an abandoned Air Force
base.

He doesn't even glance around as he walks past housing units
and military barracks, past silent vehicles.

He just follows the glint of light, as if it were the Holy
Grail.

He finally stops.

The Space Shuttle Endeavor is before him.

Breathtaking.

He is at Edwards Air Force base.

The massive Shuttle is on a runway, the sun refracting off a
cockpit window.

But it is not quite the Space Shuttle we know for every inch
of the white hull has been covered with graffiti.  The
graffiti is a complex web:  part petroglyphic cave painting,
part Buddhist sand swirl, part modern urban tagging.

Neville slowly walks around the magnificent machine.

He passes under one wing.

We see what he does not:

A boy, about ten is sitting on the wing looking down at him.

                     BOY
          Hey.

Neville spins.

He stares at the boy in utter amazement.

The boy stands and looks down at him.

                     BOY
          What happened to you?

Neville tries to speak.  He can't.

                     BOY
          What's your name?

Neville can't speak.

                     BOY
          What's your name?

Neville finally forces out the words, deep in emotion.

Salvation.

                     NEVILLE
          My name is Robert Neville.

                                            CUT TO BLACK.



