ext.  barn - day

the sound of a crash from inside the barn.  an angry cow
runs out of the barn, dragging a tenacious samuel who is
holding onto the cow's neck.

samuel's grip fails and he lands in the dirt.  the cow
runs about thirty yards down the hill, stopping on the
bank of the river.  samuel grabs a rope and heads down the
hill to get the cow.

on the riverbank

as samuel approaches the cow, he see it skittishly
approaching then retreating from the water.  then he sees
the cause -- the water in the river has a pale, pink hue.
samuel stares at it, trying to figure out what it is.

behind him, margaret sees her brother beyond the yard
wall.

				margaret
		samuel...

he doesn't respond.  margaret, trailed by william, walks
down toward samuel.

				margaret
		samuel, get up to the house.  you
		heard father...

then she sees it, too.  the pale pink is turning redder
and redder.  and then the bodies.  first one, then more,
many more.  torn apart.  missing limbs.  those with wide-
open wounds, are already drained of blood.  others are
still seeping, leaving trails of deep red in the paler red
of the surrounding water.

samuel, margaret and william stand frozen, appalled and
fascinated.

marion steps out of the workshop and sees the children at
the river.  he can't see what they're looking at.
irritated, he walks toward them.  then, as he nears the
river, he sees the color of the water and the bodies that
have hypnotized his children.  he quickens his stride,
speaking calmly but firmly, careful not to frighten them.

				marion
		up to the house, now.  all of you,
		come on.  now.

