int.  assembly hall - day

two dozen angry, yelling, men of property.  among them are
robinson, hamill and johnson, who are patriots.  opposed
to them are simms, withington and baldridge who are
loyalists (loyal the the king).  as marion makes his way
to his seat, the speaker of the assembly pounds his gavel.

				speaker
		order!  order!

slowly, the room quiets down.

				speaker
		our first order of business...

				simms
		and out last if we vote a levy...

the room erupts.

				speaker
		order!  order!  mr. simms, you do
		not have the floor.

the room settles down.

				speaker
		our first order of business is an
		address by colonel harry lee of the
		continental army.

an imposing figure rises and makes his way to the front of
the assembly.  he's colonel harry lee, about marion's age
and cut from the same cloth -- strong, weathered, with a
powerful bearing.  the room quiets down.

lee sees marion and offers a familiar nod, which marion
returns, stone-faced.  then lee speaks, simply and
clearly.

				lee
		you all know why i am here.  i am
		not an orator and i will not try to
		convince you of the worthiness of
		our cause.  i am a soldier and we
		are at war and with the declaration
		of independence we all expect from
		philadelphia, it will soon be a
		formal state of war.  in preparation
		for that, eight of the thirteen
		colonies have levied money in
		support of a continental army.  i
		ask south carolina to be the ninth.

				simms
		colonel lee, massachusetts may be at
		war, along with new hampshire and
		rhode island and virginia, but south
		carolina is not at war.

				lee
		massachusetts and new hampshire are
		not as far from south carolina as
		you might think and the war they're
		fighting is not for independence of
		one or two colonies.  it's for the
		independence of a nation.

				withington
		and what nation is that?

robinson, one of the patriots, stands up.

				robinson
		an american nation.  colonel lee,
		with your permission?

				lee
		please.

				robinson
		those of us who call ourselves
		patriots are not seeking to give
		birth to an american nation, but to
		protect one that already exists.  it
		was born a hundred-and-seventy years
		ago at jamestown, virginia and has
		grown stronger and more mature with
		every generation reared and with
		every crop sown and harvested.  we
		are a nation and our rights as
		citizens of that nation are
		threatened by a tyrant three
		thousand miles away.

				lee
		thank you.  were i an orator, those
		are the exact words i would have
		spoken.

laughter.  marion rises.

				marion
		mister robinson, tell me, why should
		i trade one tyrant, three thousand
		miles away, for three thousand
		tyrants, one mile away?

laughter from the loyalists.  surprise from lee and the
patriots.  in the gallery, gabriel winces.

				robinson
		sir?

				marion
		an elected legislature can trample a
		man's rights just as easily as a
		king can.

				lee
		captain marion, i understood you to
		be a patriot.

				marion
		it's mister marion.

				lee
		i understood him to be a patriot as
		well.

more laughter.

				marion
		if you mean by a patriot, am i angry
		at the townsend acts and the stamp
		act?  then i'm a patriot.  and what
		of the navigation act?  should i be
		permitted to sell my tobacco to the
		french traders on martinique?  yes,
		and it's an intrusion into my
		affairs that i can't... legally.

laughter.

				marion
		and what of the greedy, self-serving
		bastards who sit as magistrates on
		the admiralty court and have fined
		nearly every man in this room.
		should they be boxed about the ears
		and thrown onto the first ship back
		to england?  i'll do it myself.
			   (beat)
		and do i believe that the american
		colonies should stand as a separate,
		independent nation, free from the
		reins of king and parliament?  i do,
		and if that makes a patriot, then
		i'm a patriot.

marion grows more serious.

				marion
		but if you're asking whether i'm
		willing to go to war with england,
		the answer is, no.  i've been to war
		and i have no desire to do so again.

the room is quiet, the assemblymen having been thrown off-
balance.  gabriel is stunned and disappointed by his
father's speech.

				robinson
		this from the same captain francis
		marion whose anger was so famous
		during the wilderness campaign.

marion glares at robinson, then smiles.

				marion
		i was intemperate in my youth.  my
		departed wife, god bless her soul,
		dampened that intemperance with the
		mantle of responsibility.

robinson looks derisively at marion.

				robinson
		temperance can be a convenient
		disguise for fear.

marion bristles but before he can answer, lee steps in.

				lee
		mister robinson, i fought with
		captain marion in the french and
		indian war, including the wilderness
		campaign.  we served as scouts under
		washington and i have no doubts
		about captain marion's courage or
		competence on a battlefield.
		there's not a man in this room, or
		anywhere, for that matter, to whom i
		would more willingly trust my life.

				robinson
		i stand corrected.

				lee
		nonetheless, i would like to know,
		mister marion, how... how... how...

lee's oratorical skills peter out.

				lee
		damn it, francis!  how in god's name
		do you expect to gain independence
		without going to war?

				marion
		harry, harry, harry...

marion and lee drop all formality and become nothing more
than two old friends, pissed off.

				lee
		my hairy arse!  you live in a cave
		if you think we'll get independence
		without war...

the speaker pounds his gavel.

				speaker
		gentlemen!  please!  this is not a
		tavern!

				marion
		wasn't it a union jack we fought
		under?

				lee
		a long time ago...

				marion
		thirteen years...

				lee
		that's a damn long time...

the speaker pounds his gavel again.

				speaker
		gentlemen!  please!

marion and lee ignore the speaker.

				marion
		you were an englishman then...

				lee
		i was an american, i just didn't
		know it yet...

the astonished assemblymen and now even the speaker watch
the argument avidly, turning their heads in simultaneous
anticipation of each rejoinder.

				marion
		we don't have to go to war to gain
		independence...

				lee
		balderdash!

				marion
		there are a thousand avenues, other
		than war, at our disposal...

				lee
		name five hundred.

				marion
		royal petition, delegates to court,
		judicial redress, economic boycott,
		bribery...

				lee
		that's five, keep going...

				marion
		... time, royal succession,
		regicide, bribery...

				lee
		you said bribery twice...

marion speaks slowly and firmly.

				marion
		we do not have to go to war to gain
		independence.

lee says nothing for a moment, then he speaks more
seriously, quietly, grimly.

				lee
		francis, i was at bunker hill.  it
		was as bad as anything you and i saw
		on the frontier.  worse than the
		slaughter at the ashuelot river.
		the british advanced three times and
		we killed over seven hundred of them
		at point blank range.  and still,
		they advanced and they took the
		ground.  that is the measure of
		their resolve.  if your principles
		dictate independence, then war is
		the only way.  it has come to that.

marion is silent for a long moment.  he softens, finds
himself unsteady and speaks far more honestly than he ever
wanted to.

				marion
		i have seven children.  my wife is
		dead.  who's to care for them if i
		go to war?

lee is stunned by marion's honesty and his show of
weakness.  at first lee has no answer, then:

				lee
		wars are not fought only by
		childless men.  a man must weigh his
		personal responsibilities against
		his principles.

				marion
		that's what i'm doing.  i will not
		fight and because i won't, i will
		not cast a vote that will send
		others to fight in my stead.

				lee
		and your principles?

				marion
		i'm a parent, i don't have the
		luxury of principles.

the other assemblymen, both patriots and loyalists, stare
at him, appalled.  marion, feeling weak, sits down.  lee
looks at his friend with more sympathy than
disappointment.  then lee turns to robinson who addresses
the chair.

				robinson
		mister speaker, i call for a vote on
		a levy to the continental army.

				hamill
		second.

				speaker
		so moved.

the vote is taken on a roll call.  gabriel watches from
the gallery.

				speaker
		mr. robinson.

				robinson
		yea.

				speaker
		mr. hamill.

				hamill
		yea.

				speaker
		mr. johnson.

				johnson
		yea.

				speaker
		mr. simms.

				simms
		nay.

				speaker
		mr. marion.

no response.

				speaker
		mr. marion.

				marion
		nay.

in the gallery gabriel turns and walks out.  the roll call
continues.  marion sits, eyes straight ahead.

