ext.  snow's island - night

marion sits at cornwallis' ornate, folding campaign desk,
reading cornwallis' journal, surrounded by cornwallis'
field gear which includes furniture, music boxes, oil
paintings and an elaborate folding commode.  the two great
danes sit nearby, eyeing marion warily.

the men have divided themselves into two groups, one
coarse, the other civilized, each clustered around a
separate fire.

the coarse men, including dalton, brother joseph and
randolph, a grizzled, black-toothed mountain man, drink
and laugh loudly, wearing cornwallis' wigs askew.

the civilized men, including rev. oliver, gabriel, scott,
fielding and abner, talk quietly.

marion puts down the journal and walks over to the
campfire where the rougher men are gathered.  he stands
just inside the firelight and speaks loudly, so that all
can hear:

				marion
		today was hard earned but a good
		start.

marion looks at dalton, then turns to the other men as
well.

				marion
		in the future wounded british
		soldiers will be given quarters.

				dalton
		like they gave quarter to my family?
		my wife and three children were
		hiding in our root cellar when they
		came.  the redcoats locked the door
		and torched the house.

				marion
		you have my sympathy... but the
		order stands.

				dalton
		and who are you to give an order
		like that?  we all know what you did
		after fort wilderness.

that hits home but marion remains calm.

				marion
		i'm your commanding officer.  this
		is militia, not regular army.  i
		can't hold you here, but as long as
		you stay, you'll follow my orders.

marion looks from face to face.  most begrudgingly nod.
that's enough for marion.

as he heads back to his own campfire he's intercepted by
rev. oliver who speaks to him out of earshot of the other
men, except for gabriel and billings who overhear.

				rev. oliver
		thank you.

				marion
		for what?

				rev. oliver
		for trying to impose some decency on
		that sort.

				marion
		don't depend on my decency.  i'm one
		of that sort.

marion walks on.  rev. oliver exchanges a look with
gabriel, then heads off.  as marion joins gabriel and
billings at his campfire, billings grips his bottle.

				billings
		am i one of that sort?

				marion
		you're the worst of that sort.
		you're the sort that gives that sort
		a bad name.

billings considers that, then shrugs and takes a long
drink.  he hands the bottle to marion who takes an equally
long drink.  marion picks up his pennsylvania rifle.

				marion
		i'm going to check the watch.

he disappears into the darkness leaving gabriel and
billings at the campfire.

				gabriel
		he shouldn't make light.  that
		redcoat should not have been killed.

				billings
		he's not making light.

gabriel shoots billings a dubious look.

				billings
		you don't know him very well, do
		you?

				gabriel
		he's my father.

billings looks closely at gabriel.

				gabriel
		i know him well enough?

				billings
		don't fault him for having grown up
		on the frontier.  it was a harder
		time and a harder place than you
		know.

gabriel looks at billings, then turns back to the fire.

