int.  cornwallis' headquarters - day

a stone-faced marion stands in the center of the room,
playing with the dogs.  one of the dogs jumps up, putting
its front legs on marion's shoulders, and licks his face.
just then, cornwallis walks in, overjoyed to see his dogs.

				cornwallis
		jupiter!  mars!

the dogs just look at cornwallis.  he holds out his arms,
waiting for them to rush to him.  they look up at marion
who nods to them.

				marion
		go.

the dogs run to cornwallis and nuzzle him in a friendly
but not enthusiastic manner.  cornwallis pats them
vigorously, too vigorously for the moderate level of joy
the dogs are showing at their reunion.

				cornwallis
		my boys... my boys... you seem to
		have been well fed.  thank you for
		that, colonel.

				marion
		my pleasure, sir.

				cornwallis
		please forgive me for keeping you
		waiting.

				marion
		apology accepted.

				cornwallis
		thank you, colonel... i'm afraid i
		don't know your name.

				marion
		colonel will do.

				cornwallis
		as you wish.

tarleton enters with four dragoons, all armed...

marion freezes...

marion and tarleton lock eyes.  marion searches for some
sign that tarleton recognizes him.  there's none.

				cornwallis
		colonel... colonel banastre
		tarleton.

tarleton nods.

				tarleton
		colonel.

marion, like ice, looks tarleton up and down.  then he
slowly turns and looks at the four dragoons, two on either
side of tarleton.  marion measures the odds and finds them
wanting.

with a supreme effort of will, marion forces himself to
turn from tarleton to cornwallis and the matter at hand.

				marion
		shall we proceed?

				cornwallis
		let us.  unless you object, i would
		like to deem this meeting a formal
		negotiation and, as such, there are
		certain customary practices.
		perhaps i could explain them to
		you...

				marion
		i'm familiar with how a formal
		negotiation is handled.

				cornwallis
		oh?

				marion
		i served in his majesty's army in
		the french and indian war.

				cornwallis
		oh.  very well, then.  would you, as
		the initiating party, like to begin?

				marion
		unless you would like to claim
		aggrieved status.

cornwallis is surprised.  he exchanges a look with
tarleton.

				cornwallis
		you are familiar with how these
		things are done.  in fact, i would
		like to claim aggrieved status.

				marion
		very well, proceed, sir.

				cornwallis
		first, you have in your possession
		certain belongings of mine,
		including clothing, private papers,
		furniture and personal effects of a
		non-military nature which i would
		like to have returned to me.

				marion
		i will do so as soon as possible.

cornwallis is surprised.

				cornwallis
		thank you.

				marion
		please accept my apology for not
		having done so sooner.

				cornwallis
		apology accepted.  now, on the
		matter of the specific targeting of
		officers during engagements, this is
		absolutely unacceptable.

				marion
		that one is a bit more difficult.

				cornwallis
		certainly you must know that in
		civilized warfare, officers in the
		field must not be accorded
		inappropriate levels of hostile
		attention.

				marion
		and what are inappropriate levels of
		hostile attention?

				cornwallis
		colonel, imagine the utter chaos
		that would result from un-led armies
		having at each other.  there must be
		gentlemen in command to lead and,
		when appropriate, restrain their
		men.

				marion
		restrain them from the targeting of
		civilians, including women and
		children?

				cornwallis
		that is a separate issue.

				marion
		i consider them linked.

				cornwallis
		i beg to differ.  one is a command
		decision on your part.  the other
		represents nothing more than the
		occasional over-exuberance of field
		officers attempting to carry out
		their duty in difficult
		circumstances.

				marion
		as long as your soldiers attack
		civilians, i will order the shooting
		of your officers at the outset of
		every engagement.
			   (beat)
		and my men are excellent marksmen.

cornwallis sighs.

				cornwallis
		very well, let us move on to...

				marion
		prisoner exchange.

				cornwallis
		sir?

				marion
		you have eighteen of my men.  i want
		them back.

				cornwallis
		i do have eighteen criminals under
		sentence of death, but i hold no
		prisoners-of-war.

				marion
		if that's your position, then
		eighteen of your officers will die.
		nineteen, if you hang me with my
		men.

				cornwallis
		what officers?

marion steps to the window, checks the view.  a wooded
hillside is visible in the distance.  marion reaches into
his jacket...

the dragoons move on him...

marion extracts not a weapon, but a spyglass, which he
hands to cornwallis.

				marion
		in the clearing, just down from the
		crest, to the left of the dark
		pines...

cornwallis looks through the spyglass.

view through the spyglass

though difficult to see clearly through the shimmering
haze, cornwallis can just make out a row of bound redcoat
officers, with patriot soldiers holding muskets at their
heads.

cornwallis turns coldly to marion.

				cornwallis
		their names, ranks and posts?

				marion
		they refused to give me their names.
		their ranks are nine lieutenants,
		five captains, three majors and one
		fat colonel who called me a cheeky
		fellow.  their posts?  we picked
		them up here-and-there last night.

cornwallis glares at marion.

				cornwallis
		you are not a gentleman.

marion can't help but laugh at the insult.

				marion
		if your conduct is the measure of a
		gentleman, i take that as a
		compliment.
			   (coldly)
		get my men.

cornwallis turns to colonel huntington.

				cornwallis
		arrange the exchange.

colonel huntington leaves to do so.

				marion
		thank you, general.  i'm sure your
		officers will thank you, as well.

marion salutes cornwallis who doesn't return the salute.

then marion turns to tarleton.  he walks up to him and
looks him in the eye.

				marion
		you don't remember me, do you?

tarleton examines marion's face, finding him familiar, but
unable to place him... then tarleton remembers...

				tarleton
		ah, yes, that boy.

tarleton calmly holds marion's glare.

				tarleton
		ugly business, doing one's duty.

				marion
		yes, ugly business.

marion takes a step closer to tarleton, then speaks very
softly, very slowly, very clearly.

				marion
		if you are alive when this war is
		over, i'm going to kill you.

marion locks his eyes on tarleton to make it perfectly
clear that he means what he says.  tarleton tries to cover
his reaction but it's apparent that he's taken aback by
marion's icy words.

marion turns and walks out.  the two great danes start to
follow, but cornwallis snaps a command:

				cornwallis
		jupiter!  mars!

the dogs freeze, looking after marion, who doesn't turn
back.  the dogs reluctantly sidle over to cornwallis'
side.

