ext.  pembroke village - day

forty of marion's men water their horses.  marion, with
the two great danes at his side, speaks with peter green,
a middle-aged storekeeper with a marked limp.

				green
		... four baskets of apples, salt
		pork, sweet potatoes, jerky, hard
		tack, salt and powder.  it's not
		much, but i'll get you more.

				marion
		we can't pay for this...

				green
		i'll give you what i can, when i
		can.  you pay me what you can.

green's daughter, anne, very attractive, around sixteen,
joins them.  gabriel sees her and sidles over.

				green
		francis, you remember my daughter,
		anne.

				marion
		nice to see you again, anne.

gabriel clears his throat.  anne looks at him coolly.

				anne
		i know who you are, gabriel marion.
		the last time i saw you, i was nine
		and you put ink in my tea.

				gabriel
		i... uh... that wasn't me, it was
		samuel... i mean nathan...

				anne
		it was you and it turned my teeth
		black for a month.

				gabriel
		uh... uh... i...

				green
		he's sorry.  come.

green heads across the square where some townspeople are
giving marion's men provisions.  anne and gabriel follow.
marion turns to some waiting men, new recruits.

billings, nearby, reads a posted broadsheet that
announces:  "reward offered:  for the capture or death of
the rebel known as 'the swamp fox'".

he tears it down and walks over to marion.

				marion
		... and your terms of enlistment
		will be month-to-month.  every
		thirty days you can re-enlist or
		return to your families.

reed, the sturdiest of the lot offers his hand to marion.

				reed
		i'm in.

the others nod in agreement.

				marion
		talk to abner and scott about
		provisions, powder and mounts.

the recruits head off.  billings hands marion the wanted
poster which marion glances at and crumbles up.

				billings
		twenty men here, seventeen in new
		brighton, a dozen along the black
		river.  we'll pass three hundred by
		week's end if this keeps up.

on the other side of the square

gabriel and several of marion's men take supplies from
green, anne, and some other townspeople.  gabriel looks at
anne.

				gabriel
		if i'd known you were going to look
		like this, i never would have put
		ink in your tea.

				anne
		you call that a compliment?

				gabriel
		it's a start.

she gives him a bit of a smile.  he checks out her teeth.

				gabriel
		they look nice.  as white as can be.

she tries to glare but she can't help but laugh.

marion and billings watch as anne gives gabriel some
apples which he tosses into the air, one-by-one, catching
them behind his back, a cocky move, executed with a
disarming smile that makes anne laugh again.  marion
smiles at his son's flirtation.  billings smiles as well.

				billings
		he reminds me of you before you got
		old and ugly.

				marion
			   (softly)
		no, he takes after his mother...

billings is taken aback by the gentleness of marion's
words.

				marion
		... the younger ones barely remember
		her but gabriel spent more time with
		elizabeth... she taught him well,
		guided him, she was his north star
		and mine... her father was a
		minister, in boston, did you know
		that?

billings nods.

				marion
		... gabriel's already a better man
		than i could ever hope to be...

marion hears himself and pulls his eyes from gabriel,
adopting a coarse, joking tone.

				marion
		what do you mean, old and ugly?

				billings
		you got me beat on both accounts.

				marion
		the hell i do.

they mount up, grateful to leave the sincerity behind.

gabriel sees marion and his men starting to ride off.  he
says goodbye to anne, then runs to his horse, mounting
with a dramatic leap.  he gallops up, taking his place at
his father's side.  marion doesn't turn to look at him,
but he knows he's there.

