int.  kitchen - night

margaret and samuel and william talk, their voices low.

				samuel
		they're going to come.

				margaret
		quiet.

				samuel
		we're going to have to fight them
		off.

				william
		father will do that.

				samuel
		they'll probably kill us men and do
		lord knows what to you women.

				margaret
		samuel!

a sound.  they all stop.  something moved behind the
kitchen.  margaret silently eases the others out of the
room, through the darkened hall toward their father.

suddenly in front of them, a bloody figure

big.  hulking.  in uniform.  margaret screams.  william
and samuel cry out.  the figure moves toward them...

marion, on the porch, hears the scream, races into the
house.  he sees the figure, moves toward it...

the figure moves into the light... marion sees the
bloodied face...

				marion
		gabriel!

gabriel is wounded, battered and dirty.  he carries a
musket and a dispatch case.  he sways.  marion catches him
and eases him to a seat.

				margaret
		you're hurt.

				thomas
		the battle, were you there?

				marion
		margaret, get bandages and water.
		thomas, the porch, eyes open.

marion checks gabriel's wounds which are nasty but not
life-threatening.

				gabriel
		have you seen any redcoats?

				marion
		not yet.  what happened?

margaret brings water and linen to marion who expertly
cleans gabriel's wounds and applies field-dressings.

				gabriel
		it wasn't like saratoga.  there, we
		stayed in the trees, but this time
		gates marched us straight at the
		redcoats.  they fired two volleys
		into us and we broke like straw.  i
		was given these dispatches... i saw
		virginia regulars surrender... as
		they laid down their weapons the
		british green dragoons rode into
		them and hacked them to bits...
		killed them all, over two hundred
		men.

marion's appalled.

				marion
		they had surrendered?

gabriel nods.  marion's stunned.  gabriel tries to rise.

				gabriel
		i have to get these dispatches to
		hillsboro.

				marion
		you're in no condition to ride.

				gabriel
		i have no choice, i...

gabriel passes out.  marion catches him and carries him to
a day-bed in the parlor.  as marion lays him down, they
hear heavy musket fire, very close.

marion hurries to the door and looks out into the night,
the children cluster around him, seeing a strange sight.

a skirmish in the field below the house

pitch black.  then a musket fires, creating a flash of
light that illuminates a tableau of soldiers, about three
dozen redcoats and as many patriots.

the strobe of the musket shot provides targets for an
ensuing volley of shots in every direction.  then
darkness, punctuated by screams of pain, confused
hollering and the rustling of armed men in movement.

then the pattern repeats itself:  a musket fires,
illuminating a tableau of targets for another murderous
volley of shots.

				marion
		margaret, take william and susan
		down to the root cellar.  thomas, go
		to the back porch.  nathan and
		samuel, the side windows.  keep out
		of sight.

they hurry off.  marion steps into the house and opens his
gun cabinet.  he extracts two pistols and a pair of
muskets.  then he steps back to the front door.  he waits
and watches.

