continued:


frodo looks down. a cold blue glow is emanating from sting's
scabbard! frodo draws the sword...and stares at its glowing
blade!

                     legolas
          orcs !

                    aragorn
              (to the hobbits)
          get back! stay close to gandalf.

aragorn and boromir slam and wedge the doors. boromir
catches sight of something; he turns to aragorn with shock in
his eyes.

                    boromir
          they have a cave troll!

gimli snatches up two rusty dwarf axes and leaps onto the
tomb.

                    gimli
              (yelling)
          let them come! there is one dwarf yet in
          moria who still draws breath!

boom! the door bursts open in a shower of wood fragments,
and 20 goblins charge into the tomb, followed by a huge cave
troll! gimli ducks a blow and immediately buries his axes in
2 goblin helmets. aragorn and boromir wade into the mass of
goblins with their swords. legolas fires deadly arrows into
goblin throats, desperately trying to shield the hobbits!
gandalf is clutching his sword and joins in the battle! the
cave troll is sweeping his club at aragorn...who stumbles
backwards...the huge club descends for the killing
blow...suddenly, in a flash of steel, boromir's long sword
slices into the scaly arm of the troll; it rears back,
spewing green blood! sam is backing up against a wall...a
sword in one hand, a saucepan in the other. in desperation
he swings wildly at a goblin with a saucepan! it keels
over...sam looks surprised. he wallops another goblin and it
too, drops.

                    sam
          i think i'm getting the hang of this.

the cave troll lunges forward, thrusting at frodo's chest
with his spear.

                     frodo
          aragorn!   aragorn!



                                                  (continued)

                                                            94.
