int. andy's bedroom - morning - woody's pov of the bedroom
from the toy box

all is clear -- no sign of andy.  woody throws open the lid
of the toy box.

                         woody
            finally!

he takes a couple deep breaths of fresh air, then discovers
that his hat is missing.

                         woody
                   (looking back into
                   the toy box)
            hey!  who's got my hat?

the rubber shark pops up wearing woody's cowboy hat.

                         shark
            look, i'm woody.  howdy, howdy, howdy!

                         woody
                   (sarcastic)
            ah-hah!  ah-hah-hah!
                   (grabs the hat)
            give me that!

woody leaps out of the toy box.

                         buzz (o.s.)
            say there, lizard and stretchy dog.
            let me show you something.  it
            looks as though i've been accepted
            into your culture.

woody looks up to see buzz chatting with rex and slinky.

                         buzz
                   (continued)
            your chief, andy, inscribed his
            name on me.

buzz puts his foot out so that slinky and rex can see the
sole of his boot.

the name "andy" is written on it in permanent marker.

                         slinky & rex
            wow!

                         rex
            with permanent ink, too!

                         buzz
            well, i must get back to repairing
            my ship.

buzz walks away.

woody looks at his foot -- "andy" is written on it also but
in a much more childish scrawl, and is largely faded.

                         bo peep (o.s.)
            don't let it get to you, woody.

hearing bo, woody puts his foot back down and quickly
straightens up.

                         woody
                   (nonchalant)
            uh, let what?  i don't -- uh, what
            do you mean?  who?

                         bo peep
            i know andy's excited about buzz,
            but you know, he'll always have a
            special place for you.

                         mr. potato head
                   (walking past)
            yeah.  like the attic.  heh, heh...

                         woody
            alright!  that's it!

woody angrily marches across the room.

across the room, buzz's cardboard ship is still up on the
abc blocks.  buzz lies down on a skateboard and slides under
the ship like a mechanic.  snake and robot stand by waiting
for instructions.  buzz's hand reaches out from under the ship.

                         buzz
            unidirectional bonding strip.

robot turns towards snake who stands in readiness by a tape
dispenser.

                         robot
            mr. lightyear wants more tape!

snake rips off a piece of tape with his mouth.

woody approaches the skateboard, grabs hold of buzz's foot
and rolls him out from under the ship.

                         woody
            listen, lightsnack, you stay away
            from andy.  he's mine, and no one
            is taking him away from me.

                         buzz
            what are you talking about?
                   (to robot)
            where's that bonding strip?!

buzz rolls himself back under.  woody rolls him out again.

                         woody
            and another thing.  stop with this
            spaceman thing.  it's getting on my
            nerves.

                         buzz
            are you saying you want to lodge a
            complaint with star command?
                         woody
            oh okay, so you want to do it the
            hard way, huh?

buzz stands up, face to face with woody.

                         buzz
            don't even think about it, cowboy!

                         woody
            oh, yeah, tough guy?!

woody pushes buzz in the chest, accidentally activating a
button that makes the spaceman's helmet open.

buzz grabs his neck, gasping for air.  he drops to his knees
and begins to writhe on the ground, holding his breath.

woody is unsure how to react.

suddenly, buzz sniffs the air.

                         buzz
            the air isn't toxic.

buzz rises and points an accusing finger at woody.

                         buzz
            how dare you open a spaceman's
            helmet on an uncharted planet!  my
            eyeballs could've been sucked from
            their sockets!

buzz closes his helmet.

                         woody
            you actually think you're the "buzz
            lightyear?" oh, all this time i
            thought it was an act!
                   (to the room)
            hey, guys!  look!  it's the real
            buzz lightyear!

                         buzz
            you're mocking me, aren't you?

                         woody
            oh, no, no, no...
                   (pointing behind buzz)
            buzz, look!  an alien!

                         buzz
            where?

buzz falls for the trick and turns around.

woody kneels over with laughter.

sfx: dog barking

woody stops short.  all the toys look to the bedroom window.

                         sid (o.s.)
            yessss!  ah, ha, ha, ha...

                         woody
            uh-oh.

slinky hides under the bed.

                         slinky
            it's sid!

                         rex
            i thought he was at summer camp!

                         hamm
            they must have kicked him out early
            this year.

the toys rush over to the window.

                         rex
            oh, no!  not sid!

                         sid (o.s.)
            ...incoming!

from out the window, sid phillips, a hyperactive ten-year-
old, and his dog, scud, can be roughly made out jumping
around in their backyard.

a tiny figure stands isolated in the center of the yard.
sid pummels the figure with rocks while scud strains at his
leash, barking wildly.

                         mr. potato head
            who is it this time?

                         woody
            i can't tell.  hey, where's lenny?

                         lenny (o.s.)
            right here, woody.

woody turns to see, lenny, a pair of wind-up binoculars,
approaching him from the other end of the desk.  woody picks
lenny up and looks through him to survey the scene.

                         rex
            oh, no.  i can't bear to watch one
            of these again!

angle: binocular view of sid's backyard

a full size toy soldier is posed in a running stance in the
center of the backyard.  a huge m-80 is strapped to the
doll's back with masking tape.

                         woody
            oh, no...it's a combat carl.

                         sid (o.s.)
                   (plays under the next
                   5 lines)
            just stay where you are, corporal!
            don't move, carl.  you'll blow up.
            i know you're tired!  i know your
            leg is cramping, but you can't move.
            do you hear me?

buzz breaks through the crowd.

                         buzz
            what's going on?

                         woody
            nothing that concerns you spacemen.
            just us toys.

                         buzz
            i'd better take a look anyway.

buzz grabs lenny from woody and looks through him.

                         buzz
            why is that soldier strapped to an
            explosive device?

                         woody
                   (redirecting buzz's view)
            that's why.  sid.

angle: binocular view of the dog, scud

                         buzz
            sure is a hairy fellah.

                         woody
            no!  no, that's scud, you idiot!

again, woody readjusts buzz's view.

angle: binocular view of sid

he is sporting a skull t-shirt and laughing hideously.

                         woody
            that is sid!

                         buzz
            you mean that happy child?

                         mr. potato head
            that ain't no happy child.

                         rex
            he tortures toys -- just for fun.

                         buzz
            well, then we've got to do something!

buzz steps up onto the window ledge.  the toys gasp in shock.

                         bo peep
            what are you doing?!!  get down
            from there!

                         buzz
            i'm going to go teach that boy a
            lesson.

                         woody
            yeah, sure.  you go ahead.  melt
            him with your scary laser.

woody presses buzz's laser button.  it emits a wimpy
electronic beep.  buzz quickly pulls his arm away.

                         buzz
            be careful with that, it's
            extremely dangerous.

while woody and buzz banter, lenny witnesses sid lighting
the fuse of the m80.

                         lenny
            he's lighting it!  he's lighting it!

                         sid (o.s.)
            no-o-o-o-o!!!  ca-a-a-a-a-arl!

                         lenny
            hit the dirt!

the toys jump away from the window.

sfx: explosion

dirt clouds and toy shrapnel rain down along the side of
andy's house.

                         sid (o.s.)
            yes!  he's gone!  he's history!

andy's toys peek over the window sill.

angle: sid's yard

a large black scorch mark is all that remains where combat
carl once stood.  sid jumps up and down victoriously while
scud resumes his barking.

                         buzz
            i could have stopped him.

                         woody
            buzz, i would love to see you try.
                   (gesturing to sid's yard)
            'course i'd love to see you as a
            crater.

sid cackles and dances around the crater.

                         bo peep
            the sooner we move the better.

                                            dissolve to:

