int. sid's room

sid is in bed fast asleep.

woody struggles to move his milkcrate jail, but with the
weight of the toolbox on top it won't budge.

woody looks across the desktop at buzz sitting dejectedly
with the rocket strapped to his back.

                         woody
            ps-s-s-s-t!  psst!  hey, buzz!

no reaction from buzz.

woody picks up a stray washer from the desktop and flings it
at buzz, striking his helmet.

buzz lifts his head and turns lifelessly to look at woody.

                         woody
            hey!  get over here and see if you
            can get this tool box off me.

buzz just looks away from woody and bows his head.

                         woody
            oh, come on, buzz.  i...buzz, i
            can't do this without you.  i need
            your help.

                         buzz
            i can't help.  i can't help anyone.

                         woody
            why, sure you can, buzz.  you can
            get me out of here and then i'll
            get that rocket off you, and we'll
            make a break for andy's house.

                         buzz
            andy's house.  sid's house.  what's
            the difference.

                         woody
            oh, buzz, you've had a big fall.
            you must not be thinking clearly.

                         buzz
            no, woody, for the first time i am
            thinking clearly.
                   (looking at himself)
            you were right all along.  i'm not
            a space ranger.  i'm just a toy.  a
            stupid little insignificant toy.

                         woody
            whoa, hey -- wait a minute.  being
            a toy is a lot better than being a
            space ranger.

                         buzz
            yeah, right.

                         woody
            no, it is.  look, over in that
            house is a kid who thinks you are
            the greatest, and it's not because
            you're a space ranger, pal, it's
            because you're a toy!  you are his
            toy.

                         buzz
            but why would andy want me?

                         woody
            why would andy want you?!  look at
            you!  you're a buzz lightyear.  any
            other toy would give up his moving
            parts just to be you.  you've got
            wings, you glow in the dark, you
            talk, your helmet does that -- that
            whoosh thing -- you are a cool toy.

woody pauses and looks at himself.

                         woody
                   (continued; depressed)
            as a matter of fact you're too cool.
            i mean -- i mean what chance does a
            toy like me have against a buzz
            lightyear action figure?  all i can
            do is...

woody pulls his own pull-string.

                         woody (voice box)
            there's a snake in my boots!

woody bows his head.

                         woody
            why would andy ever want to play
            with me, when he's got you?
                   (pause)
            i'm the one that should be strapped
            to that rocket.

woody slumps dejectedly against the crate, his back to buzz.

buzz lifts up his foot.

angle: the sole of buzz's foot

the signature "andy" reads through the dirt and scuff marks.

buzz gazes back at woody.  a look of determination spreads
across his face.

                         woody
            listen buzz, forget about me.  you
            should get out of here while you can.

silence.

woody turns around.

buzz is gone.

suddenly, the entire milkcrate begins to shake.  woody looks
up to see...

buzz

he is on top of the milkcrate, trying to push the tool box off.

                         woody
            buzz!!  what are you doing?  i
            thought you were --

                         buzz
            come on, sheriff.  there's a kid
            over in that house who needs us.
            now let's get you out of this thing.

                         woody
            yes sir!

both buzz and woody push the milkcrate and together, they
finally get it to move but it's slow progress.

                         woody
                   (strained)
            come on, buzz!  we can do it!

sfx: truck

the two toys stop to look out the window by the workbench.

angle: out sid's bedroom window

with the rain stopped and the sun beginning to rise...

a moving truck

can be seen pulling up in front of andy's house.

                         buzz
            woody!  it's the moving van.

                         woody
            we've got to get out of here...now.

buzz braces himself between the tool chest and the wall.

using his legs, buzz pushes with all his might.  the toolbox
begins to move.

woody notices that with every shove buzz gives to the tool
chest, the milkcrate begins to edge out over the lip of the
desk.

                         woody
            c'mon, buzz.

finally the gap is wide enough for woody to jump through.
woody drops down to the floor below.

                         woody
                   (loud whisper)
            alright.  buzz!  hey!  i'm out!

buzz doesn't hear woody and continues to shove the toolbox
(and milkcrate) farther out.

                         buzz
            ...almost
                   (grunt)
            ...there
                   (grunt)
            ...

woody looks up just in time to see the entire toolbox and
milkcrate topple towards him.

                         woody
                   (nervous laugh)

the toolbox crashes right on top of woody.

buzz falls onto the desktop and glances over to sid, who
stirs...

                         sid
                   (in his sleep)
            i wanna ride the pony...

sid does not wake.  buzz heaves a sigh of relief, then peers
over the edge of the workbench.

                         buzz
            woody!  woody?!  are you alright?!

woody lifts himself out from under the rubble.

                         woody
                   (punch-drunk)
            no, i'm fine...i'm okay...

sfx: alarm clock

it goes off by sid's bed.  woody drops back under the
toolbox and buzz goes limp.

sid groggily sits up for a beat, then his eyes light up.

                         sid
            oh, yeah!  time for lift-off!

sid jumps out of bed, grabs buzz and bolts out of the room.

                         sid (o.s.)
            to infinity and beyond!!

woody leaps to his feet, runs across the room, and catches
the door just before it closes.  as he swings the door back
open woody is confronted by...

scud

the dog barrels down the hallway straight for woody.

                         woody
            aaah!  back!  back!  down!  down!

woody slams the door shut just in time.  scud barks and
scratches at the door.

                         woody
                   (out of breath; to himself)
            okay, what do i do?  come on woody,
            think!

woody looks across the room.

the mutant toys

have appeared all around the room.

                         woody
            guys!

the mutant toys all scatter and hide.

                         woody
            no, no, no!  wait!  wait!  listen!
            please!  there's a good toy down
            there and he's -- he's going to be
            blown to bits in a few minutes all
            because of me.  i've gotta save him!
                   (pause)
            -- but i need your help.

no response.

woody then notices babyface timidly peeking out of the
shadows from under the bed.

                         woody
            please.  he's my friend.  he's the
            only one i've got.

babyface crawls out and bangs in code on the side of sid's
metal bedpost.

the mutant toys emerge from the shadows, and gather around
woody.  he kneels down into a huddle with them.

                         woody
                   (to babyface)
            thank you.
                   (to the others)
            okay.  i think i know what to do.
            we're going to have to break a few
            rules, but if it works, it'll help
            everybody.

