int. andy's bedroom - continuous

woody puts the last battery back in.

                         woody
            there.

                         sargent (o.s.)
                   (over monitor)
            juvenile intrusion!  repeat!
            resume your positions now!

                         woody
            andy's coming, everybody!  back to
            your places.  hurry!

the toys panic and scatter about the room.

                         mr. potato head
            where's my ear?  who's seen my ear?
            did you see my ear?

                         rex
            outta my way!  here i come, here i
            come --

frantic, rex slams into a trashcan and falls over.

everyone scurries to their places as the kids' footsteps
grow louder.

woody falls limp in his spot on the bed just as...

andy's bedroom door flies open and a flood of children's
feet rush in.

                         friend #1
            hey, look!  his lasers light up.
                         andy
            take that, zurg!

woody is flung off andy's pillow and slides, unnoticed, down
the gap between the bed and the back wall.

                         friend #2
            quick!  make a space!  this is
            where the spaceship lands.

                         andy
            -- and you press his back and he
            does a karate-chop action!

                         mrs. davis (o.s.)
            come on down, guys.  it's time for
            games!  we've got prizes!

                         andy
            oh, yeah!

the kids all run out as fast as they entered, slamming the
door behind them.

beat

the toys slowly come to life and make their way toward the bed.

                         mr. potato head
            what is it?

                         bo peep
            can you see it?

                         slinky
            what the heck is up there?

                         rex
            woody?  who's up there with you?

woody crawls out from under the bed.  the toys are shocked
to discover him there.

                         slinky
            woody, what are you doing under the
            bed?

                         woody
                   (composing himself)
            uh-h-h-h...nothing!  uh, nothing.
            i'm sure andy was just a little
            excited, that's all.  too much cake
            and ice cream, i suppose.  it's
            just a mistake.

                         mr. potato head
            well, that mistake is sitting in
            your spot, woody.

                         rex
                   (gasp!)
            have you been replaced?

                         woody
            hey!  what did i tell you earlier?
            no one is getting replaced.

the toys give each other a look of doubt.

                         woody
            now let's all be polite, and give
            whatever it is up there a nice, big
            "andy's room" welcome.

woody climbs slowly up the side of the bed, peeking over the
edge.  his eyes widen at the sight of...

buzz lightyear

we see buzz as woody does - an expensive looking space age
action figure, covered with buttons and stickers from head
to toe.  the imposing "g.i. joe-sized" doll stands heroically
in the center of the bed, his back to woody.

woody gulps.

buzz comes alive and looks around.

angle: buzz's pov through his helmet

while he scans the bedroom a "darth vader" like breathing is
heard.

buzz eyes it all suspiciously and pushes a button on his chest.

sfx: electronic beep

                         buzz
            buzz lightyear to star command.
            come in, star command.

nothing.  he pushes the button again.

                         buzz
            star command - come in.  do you
            read me?
                   (to himself)
            why don't they answer?!!
just then, buzz catches sight of his ripped packaging.  the
box is designed to look like a spaceship.

                         buzz
                   (gasp)
            my ship!!

he runs up to the box and investigates the damage.

                         buzz
            blast!  this'll take weeks to repair!

buzz flips open a plastic compartment on his arm -- his
wrist communicator.

                         buzz
            buzz lightyear mission log.
            stardate 4072: my ship has run off
            course en route to sector 12.  i've
            crash landed on a strange planet.
            the impact must have awoken me from
            hyper-sleep.

buzz springs up and down on the squishy surface of the bed.

                         buzz
                   (into communicator)
            terrain seems a bit unstable...

he taps the sticker of controls on his wrist communicator.

                         buzz
                   (into communicator)
            no read-out yet if the air is
            breathable... and there seems to be
            no sign of intelligent life
            anywhere --

angle: buzz's pov through his helmet

woody's face suddenly pops into view.

                         woody
            hello-o-o...

                         buzz
            ho-yaaahh!!!

buzz jumps back, taking a fighting stance.  he presses a
button on his arm that turns on a red "laser beam" light on
his wrist.  buzz aims the red beam on woody's forehead and
holds it there.

                         woody
            aaaaaaah!  whoa, hey, whoa, did i
            frighten you?  didn't mean to.
            sorry.  howdy!  my name is woody
            and this is andy's room.  that's
            all i wanted to say, and also,
            there has been a bit of a mix-up.
            this is my spot, see, the bed here --

while woody is speaking, buzz notices the sheriff's badge on
woody's vest.

                         buzz
                   (de-activating his
                   laser beam)
            local law enforcement!  it's about
            time you got here.  i'm buzz
            lightyear, space ranger, universe
            protection unit.  my ship has crash
            landed here by mistake.

buzz begins walking around the bed, surveying the situation.
woody tries to keep up.

                         woody
            yes, it is a mistake, because, you
            see, the bed, here, is my spot.

                         buzz
            i need to repair my turbo boosters.
            do you people still use fossil
            fuels, or have you discovered
            crystalic fusion?

                         woody
            well, let's see, we've got double
            a's --

                         buzz
            watch yourself!!

buzz shoves woody down on the bed and re-activates his wrist
laser.

                         buzz
                   (continued)
            halt!  who goes there?!

the other toys are peeking over the edge of the bed.

                         rex
            don't shoot!  it's okay!  friends!

                         buzz
                   (to woody)
            do you know these life forms?

                         woody
            yes.  they're andy's toys.

                         buzz
            alright, everyone.  you're clear to
            come up.

buzz walks over to the toys.

                         buzz
            i am buzz lightyear.  i come in peace.

rex steps forward and eagerly shakes buzz's hand.

                         rex
            oh, i'm so glad you're not a dinosaur!

                         buzz
            why, thank you...
                   (pulls away)
            now thank you all for your kind
            welcome.

                         rex
            say!  what's that button do?

                         buzz
            i'll show you.

buzz presses a button on his chest.

                         buzz (sampled voice)
            buzz lightyear to the rescue!

the toys all gasp in awe.

                         slinky
            hey, woody's got something like
            that.  his is a pullstring, only
            it --

                         mr. potato head
            only it sounds like a car ran over it.

                         hamm
            oh yeah, but not like this one.
            this is a quality sound system.
            probably all copper wiring, huh?
            so, uh, where are you from?
            singapore?  hong kong?

                         buzz
            well...no, actually i'm stationed
            up in the gamma quadrant of sector
            4.  as a member of the elite
            universe protection unit of the
            space ranger corps, i protect the
            galaxy from the threat of invasion
            from the evil emperor zurg, sworn
            enemy of the galactic alliance.

as buzz speaks, woody glances down at the box in which buzz
arrived.

angle: back of buzz's box

there is a cartoon drawing of buzz giving the exact, word-
for-word spiel that buzz is now giving.

                         mr. potato head
            oh, really?  i'm from playskool.

                         rex
            and i'm from mattel.  well, i'm not
            actually  from mattel, i'm actually
            from a smaller company that was
            purchased in a leveraged buy-out.
            well, i don't really understand the
            financials, but...

woody walks over to bo peep.

                         woody
            you'd think they've never seen a
            new toy before.

                         bo peep
            well sure, look at him.  he's got
            more gadgets on him then a swiss
            army knife.

slinky presses the button on buzz's arm, activating his
laser light.  buzz quickly pulls his arm away.

                         buzz
            ah, ah, ah, please be careful!  you
            don't want to be in the way when my
            laser goes off.

                         mr. potato head
            hey, a laser!  how come you don't
            have a laser, woody?

                         woody
            it's not a laser!  it's a little
            lightbulb that blinks!

                         hamm
            what's with him?

                         mr. potato head
            laser-envy.

                         woody
            all right, that's enough.  look,
            we're all very impressed with
            andy's new toy --

                         buzz
            toy?

                         woody
            t-o-y.  toy.

                         buzz
            excuse me, i think the word you're
            searching for is space ranger.

                         woody
            the word i'm searching for i can't
            say because there's pre-school toys
            present.

                         mr. potato head
            gettin' kind of tense, aren't you?

                         rex
            oh, uh, mr. lightyear?  now i'm
            curious.  what does a space ranger
            actually do?

                         woody
            he's not a space ranger!  he
            doesn't fight evil or shoot lasers
            or fly --

                         buzz
            excuse me.

buzz calmly hits a button and wings pop out.

again the toys gasp in awe.

                         hamm
            oh, impressive wingspan.  very good!

                         woody
            oh, what?!...what?!  these are
            plastic.  he can't fly!

                         buzz
            they are a terillium-carbonic alloy
            and i can fly.

                         woody
            no, you can't.

                         buzz
            yes, i can.

                         woody
            you can't!

                         buzz
            can!

                         woody
            can't!  can't!  can't!

                         buzz
            i tell you, i could fly around this
            room with my eyes closed!

                         woody
            okay then, mr. lightbeer!  prove it.

                         buzz
            all right, then, i will.
                   (to toys)
            stand back everyone!

the crowd of toys make room for buzz as he heads towards the
edge of the bed and climbs up the bedpost.  he poses like a
high diver, shuts his eyes...

                         buzz
            to infinity and beyond!!

...and leaps off the bed.

buzz plummets straight down, hits a big rubber ball and
bounces right back up.

he then lands on a hotwheels car, which races him down the
track, through the loop, and off a ramp.  buzz soars upward
into a plane mobile hanging from the ceiling.

buzz becomes wedged between the plane's wheels.  the impact
turns on the plane's motor making it (and buzz) spin around
and around.

all the other toys watch from the bed, mesmerized.

finally the centrifugal force causes buzz to separate from
the plane, sailing him across the room toward the bed.

buzz makes a perfect landing right in front of woody and
then opens his eyes.

                         buzz
            can.

the crowd of toys rush buzz, cheering and clapping with
adoration.

                         rex
            whoa!  oh, wow!  you flew
            magnificently!

                         bo peep
            i found my moving buddy!

                         buzz
            why, thank you.  thank you all.
            thank you.

                         woody
            that wasn't flying!  that was
            falling with style!

                         mr. potato head
            man, the dolls must really go for
            you!
                   (aside)
            can you teach me that?

woody stands alone at the other end of the bed, fuming.
slinky, caught up in the euphoria, approaches woody.

                         slinky
            heh, heh, heh!  golly bob howdy --

                         woody
            oh, shut up!  in a couple of days,
            everything will be just the way it
            was.  they'll see... they'll see.
            i'm still andy's favorite toy.

montage

song: strange things plays over montage.

