int. sid's room - continuous

                         hannah (o.s.)
                   (pounding on his door)
            sid!  sid!...

sid carelessly tosses the backpack on the bed and walks over
to a makeshift workbench.

                         sid
                   (as doctor)
            oh, no.  we have a sick patient
            here, nurse.  prepare the o.r., stat!

sid clicks on a bare bulb dangling above his "operating
table."

woody and buzz look on from the safety of the backpack as
sid places the janie doll's head in a vise.

                         hannah (o.s.)
            sid, give her back!  give her back
            now!  i'm telling!

                         sid
                   (as doctor)
            patient is...
                   (straining while
                   tightening vise)
            ...pre-e-epped.

sid grabs a painter's mask from his toolchest and dons it
like a surgeon's mask.

                         sid
                   (as doctor)
            no one's ever attempted a double
            bypass brain transplant before.

sid grabs a toy pterodactyl from a nearby crate full of junk.

                         sid
                   (as doctor)
            now for the tricky part -- pliers!

                         buzz
                   (whispering to woody)
            i don't believe that man's ever
            been to medical school.

sid struggles for a moment with his "patient" then stops.

                         sid
                   (as nurse)
            doctor, you've done it!
                   (running to the door)
            hannah?

he opens the door.  hannah is standing there, looking worried.

                         sid
                   (continued)
            janie's all better now.

he hands her janie -- her head has been replaced with a
pterodactyl's.  hannah screams at the sight of the
monstrosity and bolts down the hallway.

                         hannah
            mom!!  mom!!

                         sid
            she's lying!  whatever she says
            it's not true!

sid throws the doll to the ground and runs after hannah,
slamming the door behind him.

woody and buzz peer out of the backpack at their new
surroundings.  heavy metal posters, discarded toy remains
and power tools adorn the messy room.

they are in hell...toy hell.

                         woody
            we are gonna die.
                   (bolting out of the pack)
            i'm outta here!

woody leaps from the bed to the doorknob and struggles to
open it.  no good.  woody drops to the floor.

                         woody
            locked!  there's gotta be another
            way out of here.

sfx: rolling sound

woody is startled by the noise.

a small yo-yo rolls out from behind a box and falls on its
side.

spooked, woody grabs a pencil from the floor and brandishes
it like a weapon.

just then a shadow passes by woody.  he turns quickly but
sees nothing.

                         woody
            uh...buzz?  was that you?

woody hurriedly trades his pencil for a larger flashlight.

he hears a noise from under sid's bed.  woody turns on the
flashlight and shines the beam in the direction of the
noise, illuminating...

a baby doll head's profile

                         woody
            hey!  hi, there, little fellah!
            come out here.  do you know a way
            out of here?

the baby doll moves out from under the bed, revealing a one-
eyed doll head atop a spider-like body made of erector set
pieces.

                         woody
                   (gasp!!)

the creature extends its legs and rises up taller than woody.
scared speechless, woody keeps his flashlight beam locked on
babyface.

various other mutant toys begin to emerge from the shadows:
a toy fishing pole with fashion doll legs, a skateboard with
a combat soldier's torso screwed to the front end, a jack-
in-the-box with a rubber hand for a head, (and others).

woody leaps onto the bed and hides behind buzz.

                         woody
            b-b-b-buzz!

buzz and woody look on as the mutants have a tug of war as
they grab all the janie and pterodactyl parts, dragging them
off into the shadows.

                         buzz
            they're cannibals!

woody retreats back into the backpack.

