int. andy's bedroom - continuous

andy and woody enter the room.  molly is still banging
potato head against her crib railing.  andy tips woody's hat
at her.

                         andy
            howdy, little lady!

he deposits woody on the bed and pulls his string one last
time.

                         woody (voice box)
            somebody's poisoned the waterhole.

                         andy
                   (picking up molly)
            c'mon, molly.  oh, you're getting
            heavy!
                   (to woody)
            see ya later, woody.

andy exits.

end titles

woody's eyes come to life.  the cowboy doll sits up, his
expression changing from a smile to worry.

                         woody
                   (to himself)
            pull my string!  the birthday
            party's today?!

woody thinks.

                         woody
                   (to the room)
            okay, everybody.  coast is clear.

the bedroom comes alive.  toys emerge from the toy box, the
closet, the shelves, etc... in a flurry of activity.

potato head, his body parts strewn across the floor, sits
himself upright and begins to re-assemble himself.

                         mr. potato head
            ages three and up.  it's on my box.
            ages three and up!  i'm not
            supposed to be babysitting princess
            drool.

hamm, the piggy bank, flips one last penny into his coin
slot.  potato head walks up to him.  all his facial pieces
are in the wrong slots.

                         mr. potato head
            hey, hamm!  look!  i'm picasso!
                         hamm
            i don't get it.

hamm walks away.

                         mr. potato head
            you uncultured swine!
                   (to someone o.s.)
            what are you looking at, ya hockey
            puck?!

potato head walks past, revealing a hockey puck figurine.

woody sits on the edge of the bed observing all the activity.
he turns to a plastic green army man, sargent, standing on
the night stand.

                         woody
            uh, hey sarge, have you seen slinky?

                         sargent
                   (saluting)
            sir!  no sir!

                         woody
            okay, thank you.  at ease.

woody hops off the bed.

                         woody
            hey, slinky?

                         slinky (o.s.)
            right here, woody!

a toy slinky dog, slinky, appears from under the bed pushing
out a checker board set.  he begins to place the checkers on
the board.

                         slinky
            i'm red this time.

                         woody
            no, slink --

                         slinky
            oh...well alright, you can be red
            if you want.

                         woody
            not now, slink.  i've got some bad
            news.

                         slinky
            bad news?!

                         woody
            sh-h-h-h-h!!

woody covers up slinky's mouth, aware that the other toys in
the room are watching.  he leans in close to slinky.

                         woody
                   (whispering)
            just gather everyone up for a staff
            meeting and be happy!!

                         slinky
            got it.

slinky shuffles off.

                         woody
            be happy!

slinky perks up his gait and laughs hard.

woody proceeds in the other direction.  he passes a toy
robot and snake partially hidden under the bedspread.

                         woody
                   (to the room)
            staff meeting, everybody.
                   (aside)
            snake, robot -- podium duty.

robot and snake come out from under the bed and reluctantly
follow woody.

woody walks past an etch-a-sketch, etch, going the other
direction.

                         woody
            hey etch!  draw!

both etch and woody whip around like gunfighters.

before woody can fully extend his arm out, the etch-a-sketch
etches a gun on its screen.

                         woody
                   (pretending to be shot)
            oh!! you got me again, etch! you've
            been working on that draw.  fastest
            knobs in the west.

slinky passes a group of toys on the floor.

                         slinky
            got a staff meeting, you guys, come
            on, let's go!

robot and snake begin constructing a podium made out of
legos and a tinker toy tub while woody searches the floor.

                         woody
            now where is that -- ?  aw, hey,
            who moved my doodle pad way over here?

woody spots the doodle pad on the floor by the desk and
walks over to it.  as he reaches down to pick it up...

rex, the plastic dinosaur, jumps out to scare woody.

                         rex
            rooaaaarr!!!

                         woody
                   (unaffected)
            oh, how ya doin', rex?

rex suddenly turns timid.

                         rex
            were you scared?  tell me honestly.

                         woody
            i was close to being scared that time.

woody heads back to the podium.  rex follows.

                         rex
            i'm going for fearsome here, but i
            just don't feel it.  i think i'm
            just coming off as annoying.

a crook suddenly grabs woody's neck and jerks him towards bo
peep, the porcelain figurine.

                         woody
                   (choking)
            aach! -- oh, hi, bo.

                         bo peep
            i wanted to thank you, woody, for
            saving my flock.

                         woody
                   (blushing)
            oh, hey - it was nothing.

                         bo peep
            whadda ya say i get someone else to
            watch the sheep tonight?

                         woody
                   (very flustered)
            heh, heh...oh yeah, uh, i...

bo saunters back towards her lamp stand, passing a stack of
abc blocks.

                         bo peep
            remember, i'm just a couple of
            blocks away.

woody is left lovestruck.

all the rest of the toys in the room are filing past slinky.

                         slinky
            come on, come on!  smaller toys up
            front.

woody remains lovestruck in the middle of the room.

                         slinky
            hey, woody!  c'mon!

woody snaps out of his trance and rushes over to the podium.

the toys crowd together as woody steps up to the podium.
mike, a toy tape recorder, waddles up next to woody and
indicates his microphone.

                         mike
            ahem!

                         woody
                   (grabbing microphone)
            oh, thanks, mike.
                   (to the crowd)
            okay --

sfx: feedback

                         woody
                   (to mike)
            oh, whoa, step back --

mike waddles back a step to stop the feedback.

                         woody
            hello?  check?  better?  great.
            everybody hear me?  up on the
            shelf, can you hear me?  great!
            okay, first item today...oh, yeah.
            has everyone picked a moving buddy?

the toys all moan.

                         hamm
            moving buddy?!  you can't be serious!

                         rex
            well i didn't know we were supposed
            to have one already.

                         mr. potato head
                   (waving his arm out
                   its socket)
            do we have to hold hands?

the toys laugh and snicker.

                         woody
            oh, yeah, you guys think this is a
            big joke.  we've only got one week
            left before the move.  i don't want
            any toys left behind.  a moving
            buddy -- if you don't have one, get
            one!
                   (checking the pad)
            alright, next...uh...oh, yes.
            tuesday night's "plastic corrosion
            awareness" meeting was, i think, a
            big success and we want to thank mr.
            spell for putting that on for us.
            thank you, mr. spell.

the words "you're welcome" scroll across mr. spell's display
screen as he speaks.

                         mr. spell
            you're welcome.

                         woody
            ok, uh...oh yes.  one minor note
            here...
                   (under his breath)
            andy's birthday party's been moved
            to today.
                   (full voice)
            next we have --

the toys all panic.

                         rex
            what?!  whadda ya mean, the party's
            today?!  his birthday's not 'til
            next week!!

                         hamm
            what's going on down there?  is mom
            losing her marbles?!

                         woody
            well, obviously she wanted to have
            the party before the move.  i'm not
            worried.  you shouldn't be worried.

                         mr. potato head
            of course woody ain't worried!
            he's been andy's favorite since
            kindergarten!

                         slinky
            hey, hey!  come on, potato head!
            if woody says it's all right, then,
            well, darnit, it's good enough for
            me.  woody has never steered us
            wrong before.

while slinky speaks, potato head takes off his mouth and
mimes kissing his own butt.

                         woody
            c'mon, guys!  every christmas and
            birthday we go through this.

                         rex
            but what if andy gets another
            dinosaur?  a mean one?  i just
            don't think i can take that kind of
            rejection.

                         woody
            hey, listen, no one's getting
            replaced.  this is andy we're
            talking about.

woody steps down from the podium and walks towards the crowd.

                         woody
                   (continued)
            it doesn't matter how much we're
            played with.  what matters is that
            we're here for andy when he needs
            us.  that's what we're made for.
            right?
everyone is now looking down, sheepish.

                         hamm
            pardon me.  i hate to break up the
            staff meeting, but they're here!
            birthday guests at three o'clock!

                         woody
            stay calm, everyone!!

too late.  the toys panic and stampede over woody towards
the bedroom window, leaving him alone on the floor.

                         woody
            uh, meeting adjourned.

the toys all crowd around the bedroom window, trying to get
a peek outside.

                         hamm
            oh, boy.  will ya take a look at
            all those presents?!

                         mr. potato head
            i can't see a thing!

unable to see over the crowd, potato head pulls his eyes out
of his head and holds them up over the other toys.

angle: toy's pov of andy's front yard

children file towards the front door carrying presents.

                         hamm
            yessir, we're next month's garage
            sale fodder for sure.

                         rex
                   (panicked)
            any dinosaur-shaped ones?

                         hamm
            ah, for crying out loud, they're
            all in boxes, you idiot!

the presents keep coming.

                         rex
            they're getting bigger.

                         slinky
            wait!  there's a nice little one
            over there!

at first, the kid's present appears to be a little box, but
then the kid turns -- the present is four feet long.  the
toys scream.

                         mr. spell
            spell the word "trashcan."

                         rex
            we're doomed!

down on the floor, woody smacks his hand to his forehead in
surrender.

                         woody
            alright!  alright!

the toys turn inside and look down at woody.

                         woody
                   (continued)
            if i send out the troops, will you
            all calm down?

                         rex
            yes!  yes!  we promise!

                         woody
            okay, save your batteries!

                         hamm
            eh, very good, woody.  that's using
            the old noodle.

woody jumps up onto andy's bed and turns to the sargent on
the nightstand.

                         woody
            sargent.  establish a recon post
            downstairs.  code red.  you know
            what to do.

                         sargent
            yes sir!

the green army man hops down to the floor where a "bucket o'
soldiers" sits.

                         sargent
            alright men, you heard him.  code
            red!  repeat: we are at code red!
            recon plan charlie.  execute!
            let's move move move!!

the green army men file out of the bucket and march in
formation across the bedroom floor.

