int. upstairs hall/andy's bedroom

mom opens the door to andy's room and steps in.  the room is
full of packing boxes, most of them half full.  andy is
playing with woody and buzz.

                         andy
            to infinity and beyond!

                         mrs. davis
            oh, all this packing makes me
            hungry.  what would you say to
            dinner at, uh, oh, pizza planet?

                         andy
            pizza planet?!  oh, cool!

andy throws the two toys on his desk with buzz landing right
on top of woody.

                         mrs. davis
            go wash your hands and i'll get
            molly ready.

the minute the door is closed woody comes alive and shoves
buzz off of him.

                         andy (o.s.)
            can i bring some toys?

                         mrs. davis (o.s.)
            you can bring one toy...

                         andy (o.s.)
            just one?

woody perks up with concern.

                         woody
                   (to himself)
            one toy?

he glances over his shoulder at buzz, who is walking away
towards the opposite end of the desk.

woody picks up a magic 8 ball left beside him on the desk.
with his back to buzz, woody quietly shakes the 8 ball.

                         woody
                   (whispering)
            will andy pick me?

he tips the 8 ball over.  the triangular oracle floats up to
the surface.  its prediction reads: don't count on it.

                         woody
            don't count on it?!!  doh-h-h-h!

woody throws down the 8 ball in disgust.  it rolls across
the desk and falls behind it with a loud thud.

woody suddenly becomes interested in the back of the desk
and peers down it.

angle: back of the desk

the 8 ball is wedged way down near the bottom.  the space is
a black chasm, dark and deep, just big enough to fit...a toy.

woody looks across the desk at buzz.

he is humming to himself as he forages through andy's
pen/pencil tray looking for "tools" to repair his ship with.
right behind buzz sits

the rc car

it rests on the desktop, pointing in the direction where the
8 ball fell, with the remote laying by its side.

woody smiles for a beat and then runs in a panic over to buzz.

                         woody
            buzz!!  oh, buzz, buzz lightyear!!
            buzz lightyear, thank goodness!
            we've got trouble!

                         buzz
            trouble?!
                   (looking around)
            where?!

                         woody
                   (pointing to the back
                   of the desk)
            down there.  just down there.  a
            helpless toy...it's...it's trapped,
            buzz!

                         buzz
            then we've no time to lose!!

buzz runs over and looks down the back of the desk.

                         buzz
            i don't see anything!

woody picks up the remote for the rc car and switches it on.
rc's eyes (headlights) open sleepily.

                         woody
            oh, he's there.  just, just keep
            looking.

woody hits the "forward" button on the remote and steers the
rc car straight for buzz.

                         buzz
            what kind of a toy -- ?

buzz turns to see rc headed straight for him.  he dives out
of the way as the rc car smashes into the base of...

a bulletin board

the impact forces pushpins to fly out of the board.  buzz
ducks as pins land all around him, sticking into the desk
like arrows.

potato head

sits on the floor in the midst of a card game with hamm.

he looks up at the desk and gasps as the bulletin board
slams down onto...

a globe

knocking it out of its stand.  the globe starts rolling
right at buzz.

woody stands frozen in disbelief at the chaos he's created.

buzz runs along the desk, the globe rolling right behind
him, indiana jones style.  buzz gets stuck "log rolling" on
a pile of pencils, but at the last second jumps out of the
way onto the window ledge.

the globe lumbers past buzz and strikes a luxo-style
desklamp.  the arm of the lamp swings all the way around,
barely missing woody...

...and knocks buzz out the window.

                         toys
            buzz!!!!

                         woody
            buzz!!!

woody looks out the window.  no sign of buzz.  all the other
toys rush over to the sill.

                         slinky
            i don't see him in the driveway!  i
            think he bounced into sid's yard.

woody backs away from the commotion, unnoticed.

                         rex
                   (gasp)
            buzz!

                         rc car
                   (electric motor sounds)
            whirrr!!  whirrrr-whirrrr!!!

rex looks over at rc.  the remote control car is bouncing up
and down excitedly.

                         rex
            hey everyone!  rc's trying to say
            something!

the toys turn from the window to rc.

                         rex
                   (leaning down close
                   to rc)
            what is it, boy?

                         rc car
                   (electric motor sounds)
            whirrr!!! whirrr!  whirrrrrr!!

                         mr. potato head
            he's sayin' that this was no accident.

                         toys
            huh?

                         bo peep
            what do you mean?

                         mr. potato head
            i mean humpty dumpty was pushed...
                   (pointing at woody)
            ...by woody.

                         toys
            what?!?

the toys turn to woody who suddenly realizes how this looks.

                         woody
            wait a minute.  you -- you don't
            think i meant to knock buzz out the
            window, do you potato head?

                         mr. potato head
            that's mr. potato head to you, you
            back-stabbin' murderer!

                         woody
            now, it was an accident!  guys,
            c'mon now, you...you gotta believe me

                         slinky
            we believe you, woody.  right, rex?

                         rex
                   (backing away)
            oh, i don't like confrontations.

the sargent pops out of the army bucket next to woody.

                         sargent
            where is your honor, dirtbag?!  you
            are an absolute disgrace!  you
            don't deserve to --

woody seals the lid back on the bucket.

potato head starts closing in on woody.

                         mr. potato head
            couldn't handle buzz cuttin' in on
            your playtime, could ya woody?
            didn't want to face the fact that
            buzz just might be andy's new
            favorite toy, so you got rid of him.
            well, what if andy starts playin'
            with me more, woody, huh?  you
            gonna knock me outta the window, too?

potato head has driven woody back to the very edge of the
desk -- trapped.

                         hamm
            i don't think we should give him
            the chance.

suddenly, the lid pops off the bucket of army men.

                         sargent
            there he is, men!  frag him!

the army men yell charge and pounce on woody, while all the
rest of the toys close in.

                         mr. potato head
            let's string him up by his pull-
            string!

                         hamm
            i got dibs on his hat!

                         bo peep
            would you boys stop it?!

                         hamm
            tackle him!

                         woody
            no, no, no, no!  wait!  wait i can
            explain everything --

                         mrs. davis (o.s.)
            andy, c'mon!

                         andy (o.s.)
            okay, mom, be right down.  i've got
            to get buzz.

                         sargent
            retreat!

the toys all drop woody and rush back to their places.

andy enters the room and heads straight for the desk where
woody is lying.  andy overlooks woody and begins searching
around the room.

                         andy
            mom!  do you know where buzz is?

                         mrs. davis (o.s.)
            no, i haven't seen him.

woody painfully watches as andy searches in vain for buzz.

                         mr. potato head (o.s.)
            psssst!

woody looks across the room.

potato head and etch-a-sketch peek out of a packing box.
etch-a-sketch scribbles a hangman's noose while potato head
points an accusing finger in woody's direction.

woody gulps.

                         mrs. davis (o.s.)
            andy!  i'm heading out the door.

                         andy
            but mom, i can't find him!

                         mrs. davis (o.s.)
            well, honey, just grab some other
            toy!  now c'mon!

                         andy
            okay...

he grabs woody and walks out of the room.

