int. sid's room - continuous

broken toy sounds emit from behind woody.  he turns from the
window to see...

the mutant toys

converging all around buzz.

                         woody
            buzz!!

still holding onto buzz's arm, woody jumps down from the
desk and runs to buzz's rescue.

                         woody
            go away, you disgusting freaks!

babyface turns from the fray and charges at woody with his
erector-set pinchers.

woody cowers, shielding himself from buzz's arm.

babyface clamps onto the arm and has a tug-o-war with woody.

                         woody
            alright back!  back, you cannibals!

woody loses his grip on the arm and sails across the room,
crashing into the wall.

by now there is no sight of buzz within the swarming mass of
mutant toys.

woody attacks the mob with a vengeance.

                         woody
            he is still alive, and you're not
            gonna get him, you monsters!

he furiously throws the mutant toys aside, digging his way
to...

buzz

he is sitting up, his broken arm now newly-attached.

woody's anger turns to confusion.

                         woody
            hey?!  hey, they fixed you!

woody shakes buzz's arm to confirm what he's seeing is real
when he looks to the mutants.

                         woody
                   (continued)
            but -- but they're cannibals.  we
            saw them eat those other toys.

the mutant toys part to reveal the recent victims of sid's
last "operation": the janie doll and pterodactyl.  their
heads have been taped back on the correct bodies.

the mutants all innocently stare at woody.

                         woody
            uh...sorry.  i...i thought that you
            were gonna...
                   (laughs nervously)
            ...you know, eat my friend.

immediately, the mutant toys retreat back into the dark
corners of the room.

                         woody
            hey!  no, no, wait!  hey!  what's
            wrong?

                         sid's mom (o.s.)
            sid!

                         sid (o.s.)
            not now, mom, i'm busy!

                         woody
            sid!!!

footsteps approach the bedroom.  woody tries to pick up the
still depressed buzz, but he just goes limp.

                         woody
            buzz!  c'mon, get up!  buzz,
            you're...
                   (grunt)
            ...get up...

woody begins dragging buzz towards the bed, but their
progress is too slow.  he shakes buzz hard.

                         woody
            fine.  let sid trash you.  but
            don't blame me.

woody leaves buzz sitting alone in the middle of the floor
and hides underneath a nearby milkcrate just as...

sid enters carrying a big box.

                         sid
            it came!  it finally came!

sid runs over to his workbench and rips open the box.

                         sid
                   (reverently)
            the big one.

he pulls out a rocket with "the big one" written on it.

                         sid
                   (reading the rocket label)
            "extremely dangerous.  keep out of
            reach of children."  cool...
                   (looks around)
            what am i gonna blow?  man...hey,
            where's that wimpy cowboy doll?

sid spots the milkcrate and picks it up.

no woody.

angle: underside of milkcrate

out of sid's view, woody presses against the inside, hanging
on for dear life.

sfx: buzz's laser

sid looks down and notices he's stepping on buzz, activating
his laser.

                         sid
            yes!  i've always wanted to put a
            spaceman into orbit.  ha-ha.

he places buzz and the milkcrate on the workbench and throws
a toolbox on top of the crate.

the impact of the toolbox dislodges woody from his hiding
place.  woody quickly ducks under a magazine on the floor of
the crate "jail."

woody watches helplessly as sid fishes out a roll of
electrical tape from the toolbox and, with an irreverent
chuckle, tapes buzz to the rocket.

sfx: thunderclap

a flash of lightning interrupts the moment.

                         sid
            oh, no...

sid crosses to the window to see a huge rainstorm commence.
sullenly, he smacks his head against the window.

                         sid
            aw, man...!

woody heaves a sigh of relief.

suddenly sid's face brightens.  he turns his focus from the
rain to the buzzrocket.

                         sid
                   (as newscaster)
            sid phillips reporting.  launch of
            the shuttle has been delayed due to
            adverse weather conditions at the
            launch site.  tomorrow's forecast...

sid smacks buzz down on the desk, winds his alarm clock, and
places it next to buzz.

                         sid
            sunny.  ha-ha-ha.  sweet dreams.

