ext.  slave market - day

the heat of morocco is unlike anything maximus has ever
known.  shimmering heat waves undulate over the sand.

the provincial market is bustling like the proverbial
anthill.  slave traders and dealers and merchants move
around, all talking very quickly and very emphatically.

maximus, juba and a number of other slaves are on display,
poked and prodded and fondled.  their bedouin slave trader
sings out their praises to any passers.

the crowd parts almost magically for the dramatic arrival
of proximo.  proximo is a large man of immense appetites.
he has the ferocious appearance of a true pirate.  two
slaves follow behind him and impotently swat at flies with
switches.

					slave trader
		proximo, my old friend, see what i
		have for you today -- !

proximo slams a fist into the slave trader's face.  the
slave trader sails back.

					proximo
		those giraffes you sold me won't
		mate!  all they do is run around not
		mating!  you sold me eunuch
		giraffes!!

the slave trader pulls himself up, hugely obsequious.

					slave trader
		i will make it up to you, master.
		it's bargain day for you!  look,
		look, look -- i have two lions and a
		panther -- hear how they roar for
		you!  "bring me home, proximo!"

proximo examines the animals.

					proximo
		how much for the lot?

					slave trader
		for you -- 8,000 sesterces.

					proximo
		for me -- 6,000 sesterces and i want
		to see their balls first.  and you
		throw in those two slaves.

					slave trader
			(moves to maximus)
		what about this one?  look at the
		arms!

proximo moves to maximus.  the slave trader forces open
maximus' mouth.

					proximo
		good teeth --

proximo notes the many old battle scars on maximus' body.

					proximo
		where did you get those scars?   

maximus doesn't respond.

					proximo
		are you a soldier?

maximus doesn't respond.

					proximo
		do you speak? --
			(he roars back to a
			slave)
		keep those damn flies off me!
			(back to maximus)
		he's dying.

					slave trader
		1,000 sesterces.

					proximo
		my ass...
			(moves to juba)
		you throw in this one and we'll make
		it 7,000 sesterces for the whole
		lot.

					slave trader
		i have to eat, master!  he's my
		finest, i couldn't let him go as
		part of the lot for less than 9,000
		total...
			(back to maximus)
		i tell you this one is prime.  he's
		a spaniard and killed fourteen of my
		men before he could be subdued!

proximo looks at maximus, notes the many battle scars
again.  the scars, and something he senses in maximus'
eyes, is enough for proximo to consider it.

					proximo
			(to trader)
		all right, let's see.

the slave trader and his colleagues grab maximus and
bustle him across the market, unlocking his chains.
maximus has no idea what's going on.

in the center of the market place, a veritable giant of a
man sits on a small stool, a wooden sword in his hand.  he
is hunched over and chained to the ground by a ten foot
chain shackled to his ankle.  a think metal helmet is
riveted around his entire head, only long turfs of hair
emerging.  his dim eyes stare listlessly through a slot in
the helmet.

the slave trader puts a wooden sword in maximus' hand and
shoves him toward the giant.  the giant stands.  he towers
over maximus.

the giant suddenly swings his sword -- he moves with
remarkable quickness -- maximus makes no attempt to block
the blow -- it sends him flying to the ground.

maximus pulls himself up.

the giant moves in and hits him again -- maximus recoils
-- the giant hits him again -- maximus falls.

maximus pulls himself up.

the giant moves in again -- he slams him a few more times
-- maximus makes no attempt to protect himself -- he
falls.

maximus pulls himself up.

the giant is about to attack again --

					proximo
			(to slave trader)
		that's enough.

					slave trader
		stop!  stop!

his colleagues race into the ring and haul the giant away
from maximus.  the giant quietly sits back on his stool.

proximo studies maximus for a moment and then glances to
the slave trader.

					proximo
		i'll give you 500 sesterces.

					slave trader
		no -- no -- 1,000!

					proximo
			(laughs)
		come, don't quibble with your old
		friend.  i'll take the lions, the
		panther, the numidian and this one
		for 7,000.  and i'll buy you the
		best whore in the town for two
		nights.  she's an enormous mountain
		of flesh who craves a stern hand.

					slave trader
		how could i say no to my old friend
		proximo?

