ext.  plain - battleground - twilight

maximus leads the terrifying and relentless cavalry charge
-- titus at his side -- the felix regiment screams out
fearsome war cries as they gallop across the muddy plain
toward the germans --

fire pots and flaming arrows are crashing down everywhere
around them --

the cavalry slams into the germans at full gallop --

it is carnage.

the felix regiment warriors slash ruthlessly with short
swords -- slicing a path of sheer destruction through the
germans -- but the germans fight with equal brutality --
and the germans also fight with the desperation of a
hopeless last chance -- they pull and spear roman soldiers
off horses whenever they can --

maximus spins his horse and swings his sword with expert
efficiency -- a spear stabs through the neck of his horse
and it immediately collapses forward --

maximus sails over the horse's head and crashes to the
muddy ground -- he jumps up and is in the midst of the
battle --

the flaming arrows and exploding fire pots create a
ferocious inferno everywhere around the battle -- the
flames silhouetting the fighting --

on the ground, maximus proves his absolute worth as a
warrior -- he hacks and dodges -- ghastly images of true
ancient warfare -- maximus' eyes burn with a zealous fire
as he fights for his life --

he finds he is momentarily at a terrible disadvantage --
germans are surrounding him from all sides -- as he fights
he looks for an advantage -- for his soldiers -- for
anything -- he is doomed --

then -- an almost mystical image -- maximus' wolf leaps
through a wall of flame --

"the wolf of rome" savages several germans around maximus
-- giving him the help he needed.

the wolf and his master fight, side-by-side.

