int. alisonÕs guest house - continuous 
alison 
iÕm a patient of dr. howardÕs and iÕm 
going into labor and i need to speak 
with him. 
knocked up - 118.
intercut: 
dr. angelo 
i actually donÕt know where he is 
tonight. but iÕve made myself 
available to his patients and iÕd be 
happy to help you. 
alison 
can you help me find him? can you give 
me his number? 
dr. angelo 
oh, no. you know what? actually, iÕm 
under strict instructions not give out 
his number, but i can help you through 
this. 
alison 
no, no, no, no. i want to speak to my 
own doctor. you really wonÕt give me 
his number? because this is my first 
baby and he promised that he would be 
here for me and i need you to give me 
his number, okay? 
dr. angelo 
dr. howard is not available tonight. 
bet everythingÕs going to be okay, i 
assure you. 
alison 
no, i donÕt want you to help me 
because i have no idea who you are! i 
want my own goddamned doctor! you make 
sure he calls me! 
alison clicks off the phone. 
alison (contÕd) 
(to herself) 
oh, shit. okay. oh, shit. 
alison calls ben. 
