int. hillyer home - living room

a shot of mother, rose, buddy, doll and waski in the living
room of the hillyer household. doll is a pretty little girl
of about 11, waski a boy of 5. mother's tone is very gentle,
very sweet, very kind. her unabashed admiration for her own
children has an ingenuousness that is more amusing than
offensive.

			mother 
	rose, this is waski. his real name
	is warren but we call him waski. he
	doesn't like it much and i suppose
	someday we'll have to stop calling
	him that.

			waski
	you can stop it right now.

			mother 
	when he was baby we called him "wa
	wa," a baby name, you know. you
	will find him a very good boy. his
	brother can be bad and so can his
	sister, but waski is a very good
	boy. and as you can see he's
	beautiful.

			waski 
	oh, mother, cut it out.

			mother 
		(serenely)
	there are plenty of girls who would
	give thousands of dollars to have
	your auburn hair. beauty is beauty
	and that's all there is to it.
	beauty is there and we have to
	recognize it. now rose, the little
	girl sitting across from you with
	the blue eyes is doll baby. she
	looks like an angel and she is an
	angel, but she can be a naughty
	angel sometimes, although her
	father won't believe it. her real
	name is frances, but we call her
	dolly or doll.

			doll 
	i don't like that, either, it's
	worse than waski. i want to be
	called fran.

			mother 
	daddy wouldn't hear that. now the
	redhaired boy you see sitting
	there, of course you have met him,
	he is my oldest son and my most
	brilliant child. all children have
	great creative powers, but i don't
	want to rattle on about my
	children, they say i brag too much
	about them, especially about
	brother. am i boring you, rose?

rose has not as yet caught on to mother's style and is
staring at her with lips apart and blue eyes slightly popped.

			rose 
		(feebly)
	oh, no, ma'am.

			mother 
	well, it's rather interesting about
	brother, actually. i realized the
	remarkable thing he had when he was
	six weeks old. he looked at me and
	understood me, he knew exactly who
	i was. i know it sounds crazy but
	it's true. he's very remarkable, he
	was born for the ministry and could
	move millions, but he doesn't know
	that yet. i have to warn you about
	him, he can be very dangerous,
	there is an evil streak in him, a
	streak of pure sheer meanness. but
	at heart brother is saintly and
	that is why he was born for the
	ministry even if he doesn't know
	it.

thus, mother. slightly cuckoo, a bit out of touch with
reality, but no fool. a very intelligent woman really, and
very, very gentle and kind.
her style, however, takes a little getting used to and her
long speech throws rose completely. she stares at mother in
speechless open-mouthed awe, unable to say a word.

the camera moves in closer on rose as she moistens her lips,
swallows, tries to talk and can't. she is very, very nervous.
now she flinches and looks around as we hear a deep masculine
voice over the shot. it is the voice of daddy, mr. hillyer,
buddy's father.

			daddy's voice 
	honey, you'll scare the gizzard out
	of the girl going into the fourth
	dimension like that.

another angle on daddy in the doorway of the living room. he
is a handsome man of about forty with a style and a manner
all his own. as extravagant as his remarks often are and
funny though he is at times, the man has a courtly southern
dignity that is never lost. he is no clown, he is not even a
comedian, he is a man and a formidable man at that: all the
characters in this story love and fear him. we see now where
buddy got his unreadable expression thing and his hands on
the hips thing. daddy is unreadable. a straw hat is on the
back of his head, a rolled-up glenville tribune is in his
hand, his hands are on his hips. he is staring with what
seems to be stern fierceness at them all, but his attitude
really is inscrutable.

			mother 
	it isn't the fourth dimension. to
	you it's the fourth dimension,
	maybe, to me it's simply the truth.

			daddy 
		(staring fiercely at rose)
	well, well, well. so miss rosebud
	has arrived. un-hmm. and you're all
	assembled here. yes, indeed. un
	hmmm.

daddy walks in as rose stares wide-eyed at him. it is obvious
he scares the absolute bejesus out of her, she looks actually
as if she might faint, her hands trembling on her lap and her
knees quivering beneath her cheap and tacky dress. but she
has a surprise coming. she is soon to lose all her fear of
him, every bit of it. daddy walks over and sits in a chair
beside her, stares fiercely at her for a moment, then begins
a long speech. again, extravagant as this speech is, he is no
clown, he is not "being funny," he means every word he says.

			daddy (cont'd)
	well, rosebud, now you are here,
	darling, and i swear to god
	graceful as the capital letter s.
	you will adorn our house, rosebud,
	you will give a glow and a shine to
	these old walls. if there's one
	thing i like to have around, it's a
	frizzy-haired blonde. now i assume
	mrs. hillyer and the children have
	introduced themselves and made your
	acquaintance, and so forth and so
	on?

rose can barely answer, eyes fixed in rapt fascination on
him, a half whisper.

			rose 
	yes, sir.

			daddy 
	all right. now as head of this
	household i have a couple of
	remarks to make. it is my dear
	wife's belief, which i accept
	although i do not totally grasp it,
	that to hire a person to do
	household work is a criminal
	practice. therefore, you are here
	not as a servant, you are here as a
	friend, as a guest and hopefully as
	a member of this family. you will
	eat your meals with us, you will
	share life itself with us -- in
	love and harmony, dear rosebud, in
	love and harmony. do you understand
	me?

			rose
		(a half whisper)
	yes, sir.

daddy pauses, then in a different tone, his hidden gentleness
and kindness are much more plain; as he talks rose's eyes
begin to well with tears.

			daddy 
	now, i know you've had some
	troubles in your life, those...
	scoundrels in birmingham and so
	forth trying to... lead you astray.
	i hope you find a safe haven here,
	honey, i know you've had a hard
	time. life can be cruel to a young
	girl all alone. we welcome you to
	our home, rosebud, we all welcome
	you from the heart and hope you are
	happy here.

rose bites her lip, her eyes are filled with tears; an
inaudible whisper.

			rose 
	yes, sir.

